ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Author: Malcom Bowers Contributing Authors:  (d20 Onomancer)Troy; (Lejendary Adventures Onomancer) Gary Gygax Cover Artist:  Matt Milberger Titles & Cover Design: Mac Golden Production: Troll Lord Games Editors: Davis Chenault, Gary Gygax Series Editor: Gary Gygax Troll Lord Games PO Box 251171 Little Rock, AR 72225 This book is published and distributed by Chenault and Gray LLC d/b/a Troll Lord Games. All text in this book, othan than this title page concerning the Open Game License, is Copyright © 2004 Trigee Enterprises Company.  All trade dress is Copyright © 2004 Troll Lord Games, L.L.C. All Rights Reserved. Lejendary Adventure, the Lejendary Adventure logo, and Gary Gygax’s Extraordinary Book of Names are Trademarks of Trigee Enterprises Company. All Rights Reserved. Troll Lord Games and the Troll Lord Games logo are Trademarks of Troll Lord Games, L.L.C. All Rights Reserved. ‘D20 System’ and the ‘D20 System’ logo are Trademarks owned by Wizards of the Coast and are used according to the terms of the D20 System License version 3.0. A copy of this License can be found at www.wizards.com/d20.  Dungeons and Dragons® and Wizards of the Coast® are Registered Trademarks of Wizards of the Coast, and are used with permission. Please see this page for the Open Game License, and designation of Open Game Content and Product Identity. Any questions regarding Open Game Content and Product Identity within this book should be directed to Troll Lord Games at troll@trolllord.com or at P.O. Box 251171, Little Rock, AR, 72225. For permission to use a portion of this work that is not designated Open Gaming Content, please contact the publisher at troll@trolllord.com or Troll Lord Games, POBox 251171, Little Rock, AR 72225 or Trigee Enterprises at ggygax@genevaonline.com or Trigee Enterprises, 316 Madison Street, Lake Geneva, WI 53147. This book is protected under international treaties and the copyright laws of the United States of America. This book is a work of fiction; any resemblance to actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental. First Printing January, 2004.  ISBN 1-931275-56-4. Printed in the USA. Or on the web at www.trolllord.com troll@trolllord.com Public Domain Artwork originally appeared in these sources: Platt, Colin. The Atlas of Medieval Man, Crescent Books, New York 1979, pg 2. Lacroix, Paul. The Arts in the Middle Ages, J.S.Virtue & Co., London. Casson, Lionel. Great Ages of Man: Ancient Egypt, Time Life Books 1977. James, T. G. H. Ancient Egypt: The Land and its Legacy, U of T Press, Austin, 1988. OGL This book is published under the Open Game License version 1.0a, the d20 System Trademark License version 4.0, and the d20 System Guide version 3.0 by permission of Wizards of the Coast. Subsequent print.ings of this book will incorporate and comply with any new versions of the licenses or the System Reference Document. Open Game Content may only be used under and in terms with the Open Game License, below. Designation of Open Game Content: All text contained on pages 168.192, as well as the Onomancer Character class on pages 202-203 are hereby designated Open Content, subject to the Product Identity Des.ignation below. Designation of Product Identity: Product Identity is not Open Game Content. The following is hereby designated as Product Identity in accordance with Section 1(e) of the Open Game License Version 1.0a: (1) Troll Lord Games and any and all Troll Lord Games logos, iden.tifying marks and trade dress, including the phrase “Worlds of Epic Adventure”, as well as all Troll Lord Games Product and Product Line namese; (2) all artwork, illustration, graphic design, maps and cartog.raphy, logos, and symbols, including any text contained within such artwork, illustration, maps and cartography;ies; (6) Trigee Enterprises Company and any and all Trigee Enterprises Company logos, logos, identifying marks and trade dress, including Lejendary Adventure, the Lejendary Adventure logo, Gary Gygax’s Canting Crew, Gary Gygax’s World Builder, Gary Gygax’s Living Fantasy, Gary Gygax’s Extraor.dinary Book of Names and Gygaxian Fantasty Worlds. OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved. 1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright and/or trade.mark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including derivative works and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, modi.fication, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compi.lation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or other.wise distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures char.acters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magi.cal or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic de.signs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly iden.tified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms of this agree.ment. 2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this License.     3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content. 5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPY.RIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modi.fying or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Iden.tity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibil.ity or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content. 9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version of this License. 10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute.     11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regula.tion then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License. 14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be un.enforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent nec.essary to make it enforceable. 15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc. System Rules Document Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc; Authors Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, based on original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson. The Extraordinary Book of Names, Copyright 2004, Trigee En.terprises Company, Author Malcolm Bowers. Table of contents Foreword 4 Introduction 6 1 Guide to Names & Naming 9 A Nominal History 11 Character Names 12 Campaign Names 13 Apt Names 18 Names and Magic 21 2 People 25 Britain: 27 A History of Names in Britain 27 Anglo-Saxon 28 Cornish 29 English 30 Aristocratic Names 34 Rustic Names 36 Medieval English 37 Scottish 38 Medieval Scottish 40 Irish 41 Medieval Irish 44 Gaelic 44 Welsh 46 Medieval Welsh 47 Briton (Old Welsh) 48 Medieval English Bynames 49 Africa: African 56 Berber 59 Ancient Egyptian 60 America: Amerindian 64 Aztec 66 Inca 67 Mayan 68 Asia: Chinese 70 Medieval Chinese 71 Indian 72 Sanskrit 73 Japanese 74 Medieval Japanese 76 Korean 77 Mongol 79 Tibetan 80 Europe: Armenian 82 Dutch 83 Medieval Dutch 84 Finnish 85 Medieval Finnish 86 French 86 Medieval French 88 Celtic 89 German 91 Medieval German 93 Germanic 93 Gypsy 94 Hungarian 96 Medieval Hungarian 98 Norse 98 Norwegian 99 Medieval Norwegian 100 Polish 101 Medieval Polish 102 Portuguese 102 Medieval Portuguese 104 Russian 104 Medieval Russian 106 Spanish 106 Medieval Spanish 108 Mediterranean: Arabic 111 Greek 113 Ancient Greek 114 Italian 117 Medieval Italian 119 Roman 120 Jewish 122 Hebrew 124 Phoenician 125 Oceania: Aboriginal 127 Papuan 128 Polynesian 129 3 Epithets, Titles and Groups 131 Epithets 133 Titles 138 Translation Names 140 Amerindian 140 Mayan 142 Oriental 142 Theophorics 144 Group Names 145 4 Places 149 Place Names 151 British Place Names 152 World Place Names 155 Fantastic Place Names 159 Inns and Taverns 162 5 Fantastic 167 Creating Fantastic Names 169 Generic Fantasy 171 Strange Syllables 182 Fantastic Species 184 Manlike Races 184 Other Races 188 Comical Names 193 Appendices A Titles 194 B Name Distribution 195 C More Methods 200 D Onomancers 202 d20 202 Lejendary Adventures 204 Bibliography 207 FOREWORD Malcolm Bowers is a writer and a gamer. His ability in and knowledge of these subjects is amply demonstrated herein, so I need not expound further in this regard, other than to point out that proper homage to Jack Vance is given. In my mind that seals the matter with an impeccable imprimatur, making this prologue near superfluous. It is obligatory for the series creator and overall editor to in.troduce material that he did not personally create, and this is brief exposition is given to you. No question about it, this book is a true gem! Do not allow yourself to be put off by the scholarly tone of the work. The author has indeed composed a most thoughtful treatise that prepares the reader thoroughly for managing the selection and creation of names for characters, things, and places. You should certainly read all that prefatory information. It is of invaluable sort. The meat of the work, though, is exactly what the title implies, names! Armed with this work the writer is freed from endless hours of agonizing over names to be used in his game campaign or story. From giving special characters apt names to the creation of a village full of individuals, the author has provided all the tools you need, including lists of all manner of personal and family names. Of course, as fantasy demands a good deal of creative naming, there are also lists of fantasy names and tables to assist you in the creation of an endless number of imaginative appellations. Before you dive into the names sections be sure and read all of the informative essays that the author has provided for the reader’s edification in regard to names and naming. The effort is well worth it, as you will be rewarded with much knowledge and given a sure hand in the name selection and creation that follows. I urge this from personal experience at this task that goes back over three decades now. The names sections proper are quite easy to use. The initial section explains naming customs. Where applicable a very handy pro.nunciation guide is supplied for those readers who desire as much accuracy as possible in that area. Thereafter lists of given names of common and uncommon appear followed by surnames. As a word of caution about the former, many of the common names for English, Gaelic, Irish, Scottish, and other European national groups are based on Biblical names. If your world does not have a reli.gion like the Judeo-Christian one, then such names are actually inappropriate. These can be set aside or altered slightly to seem fa.miliar yet not those from the Bible. For example Adom, Duved, Jemmas, Joln, Leke, Mard, Marthew might serve as substituted for Adam, David, James, John, Luke, Mark, and Matthew. In the same vein, if your world setting does not have the Christian faith, then there are a number of words you will need to avoid in naming places. These include archbishop, bishop, cardinal (as a religious figure), cathedral, church, pope, and saint. Substitutes are easily created, for example: chief priest, high priest, chief high priest, grand temple, temple, grand priest, demigod. Speaking of the English names section, that’s the one I recommend all readers to refer to initially, as it has extensive information on family names, aristocratic ones, and rustic ones. These particulars can be used extensively in the typical game campaign. Of course this book is not limited to names for people and their ilk—dwarves, elves, and so on. A quick check of the Table of Con.tents will prove that. You will find that naming places from inns and taverns to terrain features is made easy by reading the appropri.ate section and following the simple methods for name generation given there. As you read along in the latter regard, you will be treated to a considerable amount of lore regarding old and virtually lost names for places from homesteads to wells. Better still, that is followed by non-English names for like things. Be prepared for astonishment when you peruse the list of fantasy and strange names provided by the author, More I need not say, If point of fact, I have likely spent far too much of your time telling you about what you are about to find. So as to prevent any fur.ther spoiling of your enjoyment, I will close this prefatory essay with the observation that if you can’t expertly manage names when equipped with this book, there must be a jinx at work. Gary Gygax Lake Geneva, Wisconsin August 2003 Introduction This book of names is chiefly meant for those who referee role-playing games, but it can help players as well. It is a generic work, suitable for all game systems. It indicates why names are important, and how best to use them; and should help you quickly and easily produce large numbers of suitable names for particular groups, individuals, and places. Name lists from many past and present languages and cultures are provided. These names can be used in their own settings or transferred in part or whole to fantastic cultures and races. In addition, the book contains numerous invented names, and tables and methods for creating more. It focuses on the needs of fantasy campaigns, but the names can be used in most genres. For instance, fantasy names can apply equally well to science fiction. The book is quite wide-ranging, and should be of considerable value for use in developing most campaigns. Gamemasters Names bring characters and backgrounds to life. The right names help evoke the setting, and add colour and interest to the game. Names are so intrinsic to our thinking that as soon as ‘Guard #3’ is named ‘Rathgor’ his character starts to take shape in the mind. You can then easily make him vivid in the minds of your players. It is perhaps no great matter to concoct a few names, but almost everyone dries up or gets stuck in a rut after much more than that. In most stories, an author rarely needs to handle more than a few dozen characters and locations; but a role-playing campaign has more of the flavour of a genealogy-replete epic, where hundreds of names might be needed. Even if you manage the people, the dubbing of scores of topographical features, territories, towns, and taverns can seem daunting. If you’re playing in settings with a specific flavour, the problems may seem worse: how many Russian or Ancient Egyptian names can you come up with off the top of your head? Player’s adventurers may interact with dozens of characters in any game session. When introductions are in order, it’s easy for the players, but the gamemaster has to create names with a true.to-type flavour for the encountered parties, sometimes on the spot, and keep it up session after session. This is a difficult, and occasinally onerous, task. With this book in hand, however, these tasks become trifling, even enjoyable! Players Players, too, may need help choosing a name for that special character. Names for Roman gladiators are difficult to come by in the modern world. It’s rarely a single name in isolation, either: there’s family to consider, perhaps an entire lineage. Even fantastic names are difficult to get right. Plundering literature is a common start, but there are too many Aragorns and Elrics already in some games, and falling under the shadow of the original may be limiting. Game characters are rarely played like their namesakes in any case, so why not choose a unique designation? Of course, finding exactly the right name might be a problem. Sometimes inspiration flags. A magician called Frizzlepoot won’t inspire dread in his foes or respect in his comrades (quite the reverse, in fact). Fear not! Within this book lies the perfect name for your sleek thief, bold star pilot, or heroic warrior. How to Use the Book First of all, read the remainder of this introduction to discover the scope and structure of the book. More specific advice is given in the sections on characters and the campaign, which have suggestions for random selection, cross-cultural influence, and the like. If you already know what you’re looking for, the table of contents should help you find what you need quickly. The book is largely lists of names, so it is necessarily fragmented, and if you just leaf through you may miss things. The lists of real names are organised by origin, not nationality. There’s no listing for Canada, for instance: Canadian names are mostly English and French. Background material covers aspects of names and naming. It gives advice and information, and explains what has been done here and how you can extend and adapt it. It may help solve particular problems, say, if you are setting up a campaign and are unsure about what you want, or if you have invented a new race and want to coin a set of fitting names for its members. With luck, the material should prove interesting as well as useful, and grant you sage-like wisdom in the bargain! To get names from the book, simply assign names from the lists, or generate them using the tables. Which lists are appropriate depends on the setting, and what you have decided is suitable for your campaign. One of the aims of this book was to include as much useful material as possible. Long catalogues of names and table elements are therefore often given as comma-separated lists rather than being individually numbered for selection by die roll. Searching through vast screeds of names may cause your vision to blur and the letters to look like abstract shapes, so a method of random selection is desirable! You could just blindly point a finger at the page, or choose from names with a randomly determined starting letter, but there is a better way. A numbered strip of card is furnished for this purpose which can be photocopied. If necessary, count the number of pages or columns of text, and roll a die to choose which is used. Then place the strip of card beside the column used, read off the number of lines of text, and roll suitable dice to choose a line. Either choose a word at that point, or place the top of the strip under the line, roll another die to determine how far across the column to look, and choose the word or words there. It’s fairly quick, certainly more so than counting the names by hand! Scope, Structure, & Sundry A book of this size cannot hope to cover everything. For a start, it deals primarily with names of persons and names of places, that is, proper names, rather than names of things . It is not meant as a scholarly tract, so technical details, terminology, and linguistics have been kept to a minimum. Neither does it provide origins, meanings, or lengthy historical and cultural treatises, although there is background information to help in using names properly and in context, should you wish to read it. (you don’t have to.) On the other hand, it provides large numbers of fantastic names and methods for creating evocative names for fantastic races and cultures! At present, the 191 countries of the world have nearly 7000 languages in some 250 groups (although some are spoken by only a few people and fewer than 1000 have written forms). Most languages and cultures have associated names. Add those of the past, and there are many millions of names to choose from. The book had to be liftable, so, alas, not everything could be included. Since the book was written for English speakers and readers, it naturally concentrates on English and related languages and their precursors. This is where we are inclined to turn when seeking names that are unusual or evocative without being outlandish. Britain and Medieval England in particular are looked at in more detail since they form the implied background (however vague) of many fantasy campaigns, whether the semi-historical setting is the Dark Ages, Middle Ages, Renaissance, or an admixture with ancient times stirred in. Names from well-known cultures that provide strong archetypes for role-playing are also included, along with as many other interesting names as possible. They are representative, not exhaustive. While some languages have few names, many go wild: even a small country like Finland has over 35,000 personal names, and France has over 900,000 family names. The name lists here include the most popular names, with a mix of others for variety. There are enough to dub the residents of campaign towns and cities without difficulty, and to give a feeling for the sounds, should you wish to base invented names on them. The lists for real names are divided by regions, language or culture, and time period. Each such list is further divided into male and female personal names, family names, and so on. Where information on commonness was available or could be deduced, common names are listed before the full list (usually 10, 12, or 20 such, so you can easily select one by die roll). Common names usually account for 30–80% of names in use. This varies with time and place, so the number is usually left for you to assign — or you can simply ignore it, perhaps adding those lines to the random line selection to boost the name frequency. The pattern of name construction and the use of names, patronymics, honorifics, and so on is briefly considered. Place-names are discussed, with lists of common terms in multiple languages included to allow place-name construction. A system for creating inn and tavern names is provided (always useful for adventurers, be they dungeon delvers, wisecracking gumshoes, or starship crew). A selection of epithets, translation names, and titles lets you choose colourful bynames and aliases for any character or ruler. Imagined names (that is, made-up ones for humans, other species, and places) are given in a series of example lists and tables, both generic and for various archetypes. Suggestions for generating a consistent set of names of a certain kind, making up your own tables, and so on are offered. Information on names, repute, and magic is included. Appendices round out the book. A partial bibliography is appended for those inspired to go further. Terminology A few terms to do with names are best defined here. The personal name is the one that applies to an individual as opposed to the rest of his family. It can be known as the first name, forename, given name, or Christian name, and may be the only one, or one of a series. It may also be two or more words, all used in address, known as a compound name, like Ellie May. (‘Personal names’ can also refer generally to names of persons rather than names of places, but this should be obvious in context.) The family name, also known as the surname, is inherited through the generations; it may come last, as in most of the west, or may come first, as in Hungary (a surname is literally an ‘after-name’, but is often used in the sense of ‘additional’). A patronymic relates to a father’s personal name, and changes with the generations; similarly there are also metronymics (or matronymics) relating to a mother’s name. An honorific is some indication of exalted status, such as the title ‘Sir’. A nickname (which comes from ‘an eke-name’, meaning ‘an also-name’) is an epithet describing personal characteristics that applies to an individual as well as (or in place of) his personal name; a byname is any temporary surname. The two are broadly similar: although the term nickname can sometimes be taken to include bynames, the term byname is usually taken to cover all non-hereditary surnames, whether derived from relationships, dwelling places, occupations, or nicknames. A pet name or diminutive is an affectionate form of a name, often made by taking one syllable from the original and perhaps adding a suffix meaning ‘small’. A theophoric name is one that refers to the name or title of a god. For example, Ivan Schmidt has a personal name of Ivan and a family name of Schmidt. In Russia, if his father’s name were Denis, he could be called by the patronymic Ivan Denisovich. His friends might call him Vanya, a diminutive of Ivan. If he had distressing personal habits, he might be given the nickname Ivan the Terrible. In Germany, if his family were of noble blood, his family name could be expanded by an honorific to von Schmidt. Pronunciation Rather than using too many obscure accents, tonal markings, and so on, the name lists are in anglicised transliterations with standard spellings wherever possible. Brief notes on pronuncia.tion are given for those who want to try for authenticity, and should help disentangle some knotty-looking letter strings. Don’t worry if it all seems too daunting, it’s optional! Ignore accents if they are puzzling, and boldly speak things your way. If you mispronounce the names in a game, it doesn’t matter too much, as long as you do so consistently. After all, that’s the way they could be pronounced in your world. If you think Aztec names sound better pronouncing the x’s as x’s, by all means do so. If fluency is important, though, note that libraries often have audio tapes and similar materials that provide more aid than is possible here. Variants Some names end up with many variants — for historical reasons, through the desire to be different, or from simple illiteracy. Although a few are included where they are or were especially common, variants are largely ignored except where they sound different, since the medium of role-playing is primarily speech. Players will assume the most likely spelling is used unless you tell them otherwise, and spelling out names all the time spoils the flow of a game. You and your players could end up very confused indeed, if, for example, you used Crystal and its variants for a troupe of dancers (some recorded variants include Christal, Christall, Christalle, Christel, Christelle, Chrystal, Cristal, Cristol, Crystl, Cryztal, Khrystal, Kristal, Kristale, Kristall, Kristel, Kristell, Kristelle, Kristill, Kristyl, Krystal, Krystale, Krystall, Krystel, Krystelle, and Krystil). Authenticity The recent and historical lists should be fairly sound, but there is no room to provide dates and sources for authenticating each name, and spellings may be modernised. Some names are taken from literature and myth, and some are educated guesses (since many past names were recorded in other than their original tongues). The book is for gaming, not reference. If for some reason you need completely accurate historical names in their original forms, seek them in reliable academic texts and primary sources. The author also freely admits that the names of fantastic beings are completely fabricated and bear no relation to reality (probably). Preparation and Records To save time during games, it is a good idea to create in advance a few groups of stock characters for both fixed and random encounters: typical knights, villagers, pirates, guard patrols, bandits, party guests, police, starport staff, conference attendees, and so on, to be used as needed. Prepared adventures often provide game statistics for such groups without names. Rather than assigning names individually for your own or provided groups, simply collect ten or twenty names at a time from suitable lists, and attach them to what descriptions, statistics, and personality notes you have. Such lists, and indeed lists of all the named characters and places in a campaign, may be kept on cards, in a notebook, in tables on paper pads, or on a computer. It may surprise some younger readers to learn that computers have functions other than playing the latest first-person-shooter games or download.ing cheat codes from the Internet. In fact, they’re packed with software that can help you keep track of where all those names have been assigned. A simple spreadsheet can be set up for characters, with columns for names of people, where and when encountered, notes on what the players know, and notes for the gamemaster’s eyes only. You can set up a spreadsheet for inns, for instance, listing their names, locations, proprietors and other staff, and perhaps ratings for food, drink, service, and accommodation… and maybe notes on how long the player party is banned from the place! Such spreadsheets can be quickly searched, to help avoid accidentally using different names for the same character (or, on the other hand, to keep track of aliases); sorted, to find all taverns in a town; and so on. A word-processor can be used to create searchable documents that are nearly as useful. A Guide to names & Naming A Nominal History This book refers to four main time periods before our own: Ancient (prior to 300 AD), Dark Ages (300–1100 AD), Middle Ages (1100–1450 AD), and Renaissance (1450–1700 AD). There was considerable blurring at the boundaries, of course. People have written entire volumes on the history of names; the following is merely a brief and simple overview. It should help to put things in context, and also aid when extrapolating to wholly imaginary races, cultures, and worlds. People’s names For all recorded history, people have had personal names. Such names had meaning to begin with. Primitive tribal names often described some phenomena connected with the recipient’s birth or an incident of note later in life. A child might be called Flock of Birds if a flock was seen overhead as he was born, and later be known as Prodigious Leap if he’d made such a jump across a chasm to escape wolves. Polytheistic cultures (which is to say most ancient ones) often used religious names like Gift of Aten or Beloved of Belit. Parents might name their child after hoped-for qualities, leading to names such as Courageous Warrior or Shining Virtue. Primitive peoples at times also used unpleasant names (Filth, Born-to-die) as temporary epithets to fool evil spirits into letting a newborn alone; but these were replaced by more seemly names if the child survived. More formal meaning-names arose. For instance, Norse and Saxon names were often formed of two parts: Hroth-gar (fame spear), Ecg-beorht (sword bright), and so on; later, most didn’t need to make particular sense, so there were names like Hildigunnr (battle-battle–this was a girl’s name, by the way). In general, once a society was advanced enough to settle on a stock of special words to use as names, the original meanings became for the most part unimportant or were forgotten: the names simply became identifiers for people. Name meanings are preserved today in some tongues, but not often pondered on. In modern Western culture, any meanings are likely to derive from ancient word forms, and are generally only thought about by expectant parents scanning baby name books (which are notoriously unreliable). In the beginning, one name per person was enough. When there were more people than personal names, some method was needed to tell people with the same personal names apart. This was done by describing their features, characters, dwelling-places, occupations, exploits, and relatives. In early medieval Europe, a villager with the single personal name Tom might be distinguished, if necessary, as Tom the Tall, Tom the Cheerful, Tom of Treeton, Tom Wainwright, Tom Drinkwater, or Tom, Harry’s son. Such sobriquets metamorphosed into inheritable family names, starting in the Middle Ages. The aristocracy led the way in adopting family names, to indicate their estates or titles. This spread from the top, perhaps for reasons of prestige. By the dawn of the Renaissance, the middle classes in most of Europe had family names. As societies became larger and more organised, the usefulness of family names for official records meant that by the end of the 16th century, almost everyone had one. The times over which such changes took place varied by centuries between countries, though. The European pattern of personal name plus family name was established over most of the world by the 20th century. Prior to the 18th century, middle names were scarce. Again, aristocrats started their use, partly because they were very conservative in their use of initial personal names. Nowadays, most people have middle names. Similar patterns, with variations, apply to many of the world’s cultures, although there are other patterns. The Chinese have used hereditary family names since the 4th century, but put them first. The Romans actually changed from using inheritable family names to using bynames during the Byzantine period. Over history, most cultures developed a stock of special words that were used for personal names, and almost always stuck to this list. The stock of names used by any group of people changed with the years, though. For instance, many names or variants familiar to us have only been around, or in common use, for a century or two, sometimes mere decades. (For example, consider the first regular uses of these names: Dawn, 1928; Dylan, 1953; Gary, 1931; Gail, 1939; Wendy, 1920; Wayne, 1940.) It would be anachronistic to use such names in a medieval setting. In the future, new names will have been invented, and names from other places and times appropriated or revived; at the very least, many currently popular names will seem quaint and dated. Mixing names Cross-cultural influences are difficult to quantify, and depend a lot on the place and time. In medieval England, for instance, well over 90% of the names were local, and this would likely apply to most settled cultures in the past. When people settle in another society, they often keep their native personal and family names for the first generation, perhaps the second (although they might change the spelling or pronunciation to fit in, or use local equivalents). Local personal names are usually then adopted. Where one society meets another, names cross borders, especially in trading centres and so on. Tribal names and patronymics may be preserved as surnames when a modern culture enforces its record-keeping practices on another. Where one culture dominates or is admired by another, that culture’s names and naming practices are often adopted. This may affect personal or family names or both. InAfrica, names like Nkosi Meyer or Sophie Ashanti are common. Such influences may tail off from city to country, and isolated communities or cohesive subcultures may keep their own distinctive names (religious names tend to travel with the religion, for example). Conversely, attractive names from exotic cultures have always been picked up by some, especially for girls; male name use tends to be more conservative. In the modern world, there is increasing cultural intermixing. Civilisation is in part the overcoming of tribalism, and the world and its naming practices should become more homogenised as civilisation advances and stable nation states form. If Western culture prospers, the most likely outcome is the familiar forename + surname pattern, with each nation state using its own preferred personal and family names. If the future instead drifts toward pass might be called Sureway Ravine in the hope that the increasing conflict and anarchy, we could expect increasing mountain spirits would be appeased and stop most of the balkanisation of both peoples and naming patterns. rockfalls. Place names The naming of places and features also originated very early on. Primitive, static, and insular groups sometimes had only one name for things– they were ‘the people’ of ‘the land’ and anything else was ‘other’. With travel, contact with other groups, and so on, more sophistication was required. As with personal names, some elaboration in place names became needed to tell places apart. Straightforward descriptions came first, more subjective or metaphorical ones later. Specific hills, forests, rivers, farms, and villages were most commonly named by simple description (usually in a specific + generic pattern: Red Hills, Pebble Beach, and so on). They could be named in terms of possession or incidents, in commemoration, or sometimes euphemistically to avert ill fortune. For instance, a watercourse might be named Rushing Brook, Smith’s Stream, or Battle River (that last possibly even if only one minor fight had occurred nearby once). A town or street might be named after the first settler, or a god, hero, or prince; and an avalanche-prone Place names can often be lengthier than personal names, but lengthy names tend, like the land itself, to erode with the years. They last longer simply because places last longer than people. Such names may thus end up in a tongue or dialect with which new settlers or mapmakers have difficulty. This may simply lead to the original meanings being forgotten, or may result in subtle changes over time as people contract and elide the names, colour the meanings, and make mistakes (from mishearing, misspelling, and misapplied folk etymology). As with personal names, once place-names have come into existence, they are used without their meanings being pondered on a great deal. The transfer of names back and forth between people and places has occurred freely over time. For instance, an Anglo-Saxon band led by the chief Hasta would have been known as the Hastingas; where they settled, the Hastingas’ place, might be known as Hastingas, later shortened to Hastings. A person born there might have taken the name of his town as a byname, which later became a hereditary surname, thus recycling the personal name of the chief of yore. Character Names This section deals with choosing names for both players’ characters and noteworthy characters in the game world. The name of an individual should ideally be an apt name, one that fits him or her like a glove. This may be a simple matter or not, but it’s worthwhile making an effort to choose the right name for that special character. You might want to read the section on apt names and ponder on what sort of name would suit their personality, vocation, and social status. Some things may depend on the campaign. In a modern-day or historical milieu, simply choose a name you like from the appropriate section of this book to suit national origins and so on, as the campaign allows. (If the world is a patchwork of medieval dukedoms and principalities, then Aztec names will hardly fit.) Appendix B shows current world name distributions. In a science-fiction campaign, you may want contemporary names for the near future, invented names for the distant future (use the generic fantasy lists), or a mix of the two. Aliens names can be generated using tables in the fantastic section. Most fantasy campaigns allow for a diverse range of possible options, usually a mix of real and fantastic elements. If you conceive a character to be a Samurai warrior or Gypsy fortune.teller, say, and the campaign allows for this, then choose a name you like from the appropriate section of this book. This has the advantage that the information on how to put together a name of that type is right there, suitability is assured, and if you need to create a family tree, all the names you need are at hand. If you want a fantasy name that works for that type of character, then try to find one in the generic fantasy lists that sounds BOOK OF NAMES 12 similar to existing names. Look at beginnings, endings, characteristic patterns, and so on. To create your own fantasy name to suit the background, a useful trick is to choose a real name of that sort, then alter it slightly by judiciously changing a vowel or consonant here and there, so the name still sounds right for the setting, but is unique. You can be bolder and change entire names to invented ones (the first is usually best for this). If you have a character of a particular fantasy race (or species), then there may be suitable names suggested for that race in the book: choose a name from those or something close, and adjust as desired, perhaps supplemented by names from other sections. For instance, for that bucolic air, a homely sort of race might use the rustic family names listed in the English section, whether as family or personal names. To get a pure fantasy name for a human, choose from the lists of generic fantasy names, and try to convey something of the personality in the name. Maybe an aristocratic surname is in order; maybe a compound multi-syllabic personal name as fearsome as the character’s shaggy eyebrows. Astraightforward (Classical or Shakespearean) hero should have a direct, plain name, as suits his temperament. The more sardonic, sceptical, or even cynical (Restoration) hero should have some ironic or droll touch: you might have a Jandix Slaunce rather than a Ganthor, for instance. The time period may set the general name pattern: Dark Ages, personal name only; Middle Ages, personal name plus byname; Renaissance or Modern, personal name plus family name. Perhaps there is a mixture in the campaign. There are no Renaissance name lists as such: just use a medieval personal name with a modern family name from the same culture. Regardless of pattern, a personal name is enough for everyday use among fellow adventurers, but some further distinction could be required, for instance, if questioned by a border patrol. Without a family name, a temporary byname is usual. If you need help in choosing one, roll d% and consult the Bynames table below to find the type. One could have bynames for different occasions, as happened in real life; using a locality-name only outside one’s home town, and so on. As you can see from the examples, the boundaries between byname types can be blurred. Table 1–1:  Adventurer Bynames  D %  NameType  Examples (name+ byname)  01–38  Locality  Owal of the Stone Shore;  Arthex the Southerner  39–71  Relationship  Zanatir, son of Zigmoth;  Ruälia, Gethen’s daughter  72–87  Occupation  Pargus the Gladiator;  Hespek the Grey Priest  88–00  Nickname  Taede the Spry; Sena Yellowhair;  Naghir the Hawk  Localities depend on the campaign–town and region names, landmarks, and so on. Relationships mean choosing names of Campaign Names This section deals with choosing names for groups and places in the campaign and is mostly for gamemasters. As well as the fine brushwork required for individual characterisations, a campaign requires broad swathes of colour for the background. Groups of suitable names provide the requisite colours for people and places. When it comes to campaigns, it’s more important to get the names generally right and avoid awful mistakes than it is to get perfectly apt names every time. If you are using a prepared milieu, the publication may indicate (at least generally, and perhaps in detail) the cultures that predominate in various towns, countries, societies, and worlds. If so, simply use the name lists that match those cultures, with fantastic names added as seems advisable. If no guidance is given, or if you’re setting up your own campaign world, it might not be obvious how to deploy the many disparate lists of names in this book. Herewith, therefore, some advice, dealing briefly with real-world and science fiction settings, then looking at fantasy in more depth. Contemporary and Historical For contemporary genres (espionage, near-future, cyberpunk, superhero, horror, and so on), use the recent lists, taking note of naming practices. Appendix B shows name types used by the world’s nations. For historical genres (including alternate history kin (so you will have to get at least a rudimentary family tree done). Occupations could be former, as in Floxi the Tailor, or current–presumably an adventurer of some sort. If your game system has Classes or Orders with titles of level or rank that are more than just game mechanics, you could use those. “I am Zavalliar, Thaumaturgist Adept,” or “Behold before you Zavalliar, Mage of the Seventh Rank! Tremble, puny ones!” The hero’s boast, a recounting of mighty deeds, also serves to identify someone, of course: “I am he who slew the dragon Andramalax.” This naturally has to wait on the performance of worthy and epic feats, so is an option for later in a campaign. Nicknames can be anything that seems suitable, and can even substitute for the actual name. A glib character might have a hundred nicknames that trip lightly off his silver tongue. The thief ‘Eel’ may have only one, but may use it exclusively, and so have forgotten what she was originally called (perhaps with reason). Even if a nickname is used by itself as an adventuring name, players should still record a real name somewhere, otherwise it’s far too tempting for the gamemaster to make up an embarrassing one, along with an entire family of embarrassing relatives. Imagine ‘Eel’ enjoying a quiet ale with friends in her favourite tavern when her long-lost aunt barrels into the place, and in a voice compared to which the bellow of an enraged bull would seem as a dulcet whisper demands of her: “Ermintrude Schadenfreude-Gesundheit!! Where have you been?!!” and time travel), use the recent and historical lists appropriate to time, place, and culture. If you’re not using a prepared milieu, you’ll need suitable reference works to tell you which who was where when–the grand sweep of human history is too vast for these pages. While you could assume that everyone in the world in all eras has or has had the same forename/middle name/surname pattern now common over much of the globe, that would not be accurate. Place names too can be distinctively regional, so you won’t find a ‘Palookaville’ outside the U.S., for instance, or a ‘Crinkley Bottom’ outside the north of England. Cultural and historical diversity adds flavour to a game. After all, what superspy would not frequent exotic locations, rich with curious names? Your campaign will be more authentic and enjoyable with a bit of it (as long as it doesn’t sink into the reeking muck of political correctness). In the modern world, people travel and migrate reasonably freely. Centres such as Madrid or Hong Kong are cosmopolitan, but you can find people of any race and culture almost anywhere, and they will bring their names with them. Local names will predominate, but will rarely be unalloyed. Appendix B gives a (very rough) mix of name types by country–this is as much detail as can be laid out here. You may wish to expand upon this in your own campaign to reflect localised patterns in different counties and cities. In past times, people still travelled, but most foreigners would be met along trade routes and in major centres–in London, Constantinople, Rome, Athens, Tyre, Samarkand, and so on. Names in smaller communities were likely to be entirely local. In historical settings, the big problem is anachronism. Fashionable modern names in particular will immediately spoil the illusion of time and place. For instance, from the 1980s, there has been a trend in the U.S. to make up girls’ names by combining prefixes such as /Da-/, /Ja-/, or /La-/, perhaps a middle syllable, and suffixes such as /-elle/, /-la/, or /-sha/. Hyphens and capitals may be left intact. Apart from some unfortunate results (Drih-velle, LaTreen), this very recognisable sort of name immediately fixes its owner in the present. Check the lists, and avoid names you know not to be in period. This book lacks room to support the dating and placing of individual names within a time span. Often names waxed and waned in favour over years and lands, and may have been more localised than the lists might suggest. Some lists may also include names from literature and myth; and not all possible combinations of elements in some names (Anglo-Saxon, Germanic, and so on) have been recorded. If you need strict historical accuracy, you will need to consult more scholarly sources, but the lists should be mostly right. For the most part, place-names are fixed (normal and historical atlases are useful), and you can just choose people’s names at random from the lists that apply. There are no Renaissance name lists as such: just use a medieval personal name with a modern family name from the same culture. Science Fiction For settings in the not-too-distant future, use the recent lists for humans, with such changes (in commonness of names, say) as you think likely. Mix in a greater number of generic invented names as the setting moves further into the future. Names for aliens can be generated using tables in the fantastic section, or modelled after recent or historical human cultures. As mentioned previously, the set of names in use in a society changes over time. Name distribution usually follows a power law (like many social patterns), with a few names frequent and most of the rest infrequent. Changes in frequency occur more or less at random. In the future, new names will have been invented, and many current names will have fallen by the wayside. Naming patterns may change, too. In one of Damon Knight’s stories, future characters had multi-barrelled, multiracial names of the form Susan Tzu-po Françoise Barikov or Knutt Everett Roku Bright-Feather Vargas. This logically carries on historical trends of cultural intermixing and name lengthening. If Earth’s population becomes more homogeneous in the future, then personal and family names will likely be more thoroughly intermixed, and of a standard pattern. This would be probable (albeit not inevitable) by the time human beings colonise space. After a galaxy-wide diaspora, names may well become localised again, this time by planet and system. Current nations and cultures might continue to exist (or fragment further) in your future campaign, in which case, you could have worlds with exclusively Russian, Papuan, or Norwegian names. Alternatively, if social changes destroy the family, family names might die out: this would lead to the use of a larger stock of personal names if society survived at all. There is plenty of scope for almost any naming rationale. To save work, you may want to keep names reasonably short. Simply avoiding common (especially modish) modern names may be enough to give a future flavour. If many national strands exist in your future worlds, employ some rationale for cultural crossover. In general, assuming trends continue, you should mix in a larger number of generic invented names as you move further into the future–these work equally well for fantasy or SF, and are as likely as anything else when it comes to predicting the eventual forms of personal names. In many of Jack Vance’s far future worlds, for example, most of the names are inventions. Numeric names (Fred 9802, R3-D3) are best left to clones and robots, unless perchance identity numbers have replaced family names, or people have unique alphanumeric database codes referring to their DNA. Names for aliens can be generated using the fantastic section, or adapted from historical cultures. We would expect alien races (as with fantasy ones) to be more uniform than humanity. Since this helps the gamemaster’s sanity, always a good thing, the names of an alien species should be relatively uniform too, at least to start with. Place names off Earth are easily dealt with: observable celestial bodies are largely named after the myths of astronomically inclined cultures. For instance, the names by which we know most of the brightest stars are Graeco-Roman (Sirius, Canopus, Capella, Arcturus, Procyon, Pollux, Spica, Antares, Regulus, Castor, Bellatrix) and Arabic (Vega, Rigel, Achenar, Altair, Betelgeuse, Aldebaran, Fomalhaut, Deneb, Dubhe, Denebola, Algol). In addition, some celestial bodies are named after their shapes, discoverers, and so on, and there are numeric designa.tions for cataloguing. There seems no reason for much to change. More obscure mythic names and myths from other cultures will be increasingly employed as more names are needed. One common pattern might be that planets are named after their star, with the addition of a number indicating their order in the system (Spica 4 for the fourth planet out from the star Spica, and so on). The names of planetary features and settlements should follow the Earth or Moon patterns, with some names systematic and some spontaneous, some poetic and some dull, but with myth providing many names (and some clues as to what is named–a continent or world called Hades or Achenar should be a hellish place). Alien worlds and terrain should follow whatever alien naming practises you deem suitable. When humans deal with them, you can provide direct English translations where warranted. (“Ah, the Rainbow Rings of Aphasia: who could see them and not be dumbstruck?”) Fantasy Use generic invented names, historical lists, or both to suit the campaign. In most cases, many stock names can come from the appropriate lists (Roman, Medieval English, and so on), with a variable mixture of generic ones stirred in. Names for non.human cultures or lost races can be generated using the fantastic section, or modelled after recent or historical patterns not otherwise used. What’s All This, Then? You may want to know why the book contains all those real names for what is fantasy after all, or why it contains modern names when the hobby is primarily concerned with castles and crusaders. One reason is to make it useful for other genres as well (there is much overlap, so it makes sense to have it all together), and another is to provide patterns and models for extrapolation should you wish to create your own sets of names. Many modern names can be used in medieval settings without real discord: sometimes there has been little change, and sometimes they may sound closer to what is expected than the real names of the past. Most of the names can be used in various other ways in fantasy campaigns, too. Cultures in fantasy are often based on past human ones, or aspects or combinations of them, since it’s difficult to create an entire culture from scratch. Greek and Aztec cultures, Frankish chivalry, English yeomanry, and so on provide a strong flavour; most literate people are familiar with them to some extent, and hence not completely at a loss when faced with them. Names taken directly from the historical lists will help establish the culture in the minds of the players. This makes place-names easier to create, and also gives a stronger sense of locale and period, so you can have diversity among kingdoms and lands, with some seeming familiar, and others more exotic. You should still use fantasy names as well, but many of the hundreds of places and persons in the land can be quickly and easily assigned real names without marring the fantasy feeling. Even if they only serve to characterise individuals from particular cultures, such as a wandering Ronin from Japan, the historical name lists are still useful. Most fantasy campaigns are a patchwork quilt of cultures at various states of development (not so different from Earth for most of its history). The time period may set the general name pattern in each land: Dark Ages, personal name only; Middle Ages, personal name plus byname; Renaissance, personal name plus family name. There are no Renaissance name lists as such: just use a medieval personal name with a modern family name from the same culture. If you plan to run sophisticated Renaissance city-state adventures, therefore, contemporary name lists are needed. Surnames are also often place-names, or contain vocabulary elements that can be used in place-names, so they can serve a dual purpose. Once a campaign is running smoothly, occasional extra-planar jaunts and cross-genre adventures can be fun. Magical portals and items, dimensional shifts, or ethereal navigation errors can take a party to parallel worlds or universes. The various groups of names let you create names for contemporary, historical, or science fiction milieux with no difficulty. You can use quite bizarre sets of names and types of naming patterns (of which there are many real-world examples) in an extra-planar setting to highlight its other-worldliness. Even if you never venture too far from a medieval kingdom (and that’s fine, if the campaign works that way), the lists are resources that can be tapped into as required. Each provides a coherent grouped set of similar-sounding words that you can make use of in many ways. Old Welsh names might make good magical device commands, for instance, especially if you can pronounce them and your players cannot. In a setting with large numbers of sentient species, not all will have been dealt with by the tables in the fantastic section. Surely they deserve their own distinctive names? The personal names of the slough jellytoads could be taken from French family names, and so on. Mix and Match Fantasy milieux can take almost any form, and the mix of fantastic and real names can vary as widely. It may help to look at some examples and see how roughly names could be used, taking as a basis a generic fantasy world populated by both men and mythical races. In the purest fantasy world, all names for races and places might be made up. Luckily, this book provides a large range of invented names, and tables for coining more, because you will need a sackful! Strange names definitely help to set up an exotic world far from the everyday. On the other hand, you do not have the automatic coherence of sets of real names, so selection is important. The names should be suitably evocative as well as merely unfamiliar. Generally speaking, one would expect enchanters to have grandiloquent names and warriors terse ones. Noble names would be longer and fine-sounding, peasant names shorter and earthier. Members of a fantastic race should have similar-sounding names. Using the suggested tables gives appropriate flavour for various sentient races; astute selection of the rest is left to you. You might want to read the sections on apt names and fantastic names to help with your choices. Real-world name formation (use of patronymics, where a family name is placed) may give some ideas about fantastic name formation beyond use of personal names. Epithets will be useful too. In a reasonably uniform world (either straightforward or marked by vigorous cultural interaction) with some historical flavour, personal names might be assigned roughly by calling. Perhaps most non-adventuring people have medieval English names. Fighting men might have short, emphatic names, possibly Anglo-Saxon; magicians might favour longer names of Greek or Roman origin; sorcerers and necromancers might have the throatier Arabic or Hebraic names; holy men might have Indian or Tibetan names. Fantastic beings might also have names from languages reflecting their origin or your ideas about them: Norse for dwarves, Greek for dryads, centaurs, and so on, perhaps Gaelic for wild elves. Demons might have Hebraic, Arabic, or African names. Elder gods and past civilisations might use Aztec or Mayan names for a very different set of sounds. Names from these cultures could be used directly, or as a template to develop your own. Place names can be whatever fits, historical ones being most useful. Bubble through with invented names to get the right amount of sparkle in the wine. In a culturally partitioned world with a stronger historical basis–feasibly a parallel Earth–the inhabitants would chiefly use names from their regional language: Norse for the barbarian raiders and so on. Elves, dwarves, and other fantasy races should have their own languages and names, or use names from unused cultures in the campaign, historical or otherwise (in your world they might, for instance, speak in Classical Greek, Latin, and other early tongues: the newer human languages could have been derived from them). Salt with invented names to taste. Using similar-sounding names for invented additions can help to maintain the atmosphere. Your campaign world may bear little relation to any of the examples above, but they should give an idea of what might be possible, and what you might care to do with names in your own world. Cultural Crossover You can be as free or detailed as you like about name distribu.tion. It could follow race or nationality, in which case population breakdowns or random encounter tables that specified those things would indicate what names to use for encountered persons. This has the advantage of keeping things easily manageable. Cultures aren’t hermetic, though: races mix and names cross borders. You may want to have some form of cultural crossover, with names borrowed from adjacent cultures, at least for humans. In general, one might expect non-human races to be more constant and traditional in their naming practices, and not so easily influenced. Some examples for typical sorts of fantasy nations follow; you would roll d% for inhabitants and use the indicated list to choose a name; or just set up towns and villages with about the indicated proportion of names of that type. Brythonnia:  01–60  Anglo-Saxon  61–85  Medieval English  86–00  Norman  Lyonnesse:  01–55  Celtic  56–75  Generic  76–95  Briton  96–00  Elven  Skandia:  01–55  Norse  56–75  Generic  96–00  Dwarven  You can make this process far more intricate. Take the imaginary country of Kregar, which has two languages, a small population from a neighbouring state of Caraesia and elves in the border forest. Kregar names might follow this pattern: Humans: 01–65 Assenyan 66–85 Bruanian 86–95 Caraesian 96–00 Elven Elves: 01–95 Elven 96–00 Kregar human* * The names, usually of a hero, sage, or artist, will have an elven prefix or suffix added. The names can be taken from extant lists (as simple as Anglo-Saxon, Briton, and Celtic), or you could invent them. You could even extend the process down to specific villages and naming patterns: for example, the inhabitants of Sharvokk on Kregar’s BOOK OF NAMES 16 south coast might all have names like Chor-San, Jorn-Bak, Horl-Vas and so on. (I certainly wouldn’t want to do quite that much work, though!) Anachronism Campaigns and game systems vary in how much importance is placed on history and the historical basis of things. If they are not important to you, then don’t worry about them. Perhaps only nobles had family names in medieval Europe, but if you have gnomes with steam-catapults on the scene, it is a minor thing indeed to let everyone have family names, if that’s what you want. This is quite different from using trendy modern names like Darren and Brittany, which is equivalent to having your knights ride motorcycles. (One trendy name, Tiffany, was in fact a pet name for Theophania in medieval times, but most people won’t know that.) There’s no reason you can’t use a modern name in a past setting if it fits the flavour - Scottish or French, say. You may indeed find some of the older names too weird, and the modern ones better suited to your conception of the setting. In a world where magic works, it is doubtful that history would have followed precisely the same course that it did on our Earth. History, and past naming practices would, in general, be only a rough guide. Both are there to let you add a certain flavour to a game, and to help you get things right, if that is of moment. Other things may take precedence. Tolkien had his noble and elven characters use bynames–Aragorn, son of Arathorn; Legolas of the Woodland Realm–but gave his hobbits family names. It made the small folk seem ordinary, which was what was needed for his tale. But I Need More It might not seem like it at first blush, but you might run short of names. This could occur if you want to use one fantastic table for a few related races without overlap. Or perhaps you have many different South Sea island tribes, friendly, warlike, and cannibalistic, and you want to keep their name groups distinct. There may not be enough real names of the right type. This can be dealt with by splitting names or tables into groups, perhaps alphabetically, or by using different dice to generate random numbers for particular portions of tables, and so on. Use a distinct set for each tribe or race as required. If you need more names, use prefixes and suffixes to expand the set, perhaps a subset of the syllables in the fantastic section table. As suggested in that section, you can of course combine elements from various tables in a multitude of ways to experiment with the sort of names that can be generated. Religious Names Names deriving from religions so permeate most cultures that they are almost impossible to disentangle. Western history is strongly influenced by Christianity, so many biblical names appear. The more popular names in English form include Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, James, Paul, Simon, Peter, Timothy; David, Joseph, Daniel, Adam, Isaac, Solomon, Benjamin, Samuel, Jacob, Abraham; Mary, Martha, Rebecca, Rachel, Ruth, Sarah, Deborah, Elizabeth, Ann, Susan, Sharon. Variants, minor figures, and saints add many more names, few of which most would regard as overtly religious. Such names are usually so assimilated that they are assumed to be native: Ivan (the Slavic form of John) is quintessentially Russian, for instance. It is hard to imagine their lack in a real medieval setting, when half the males in a village could easily be called John. The same is true for many cultures: Sanskrit and Greek names can often be theophoric, the names of Mohammed and his relatives are popular in Arabic lands, and so on. A typical fantasy world is likely polytheistic, with either multiple independent gods, an invented or adapted pantheon, or multiple pantheons (Norse, Graeco-Roman, and so on), each influencing some portion of the world. You might be concerned about names based on religions other than those in your milieu. It’s best not to worry. If you don’t recognise the odd one or two (some of the 5000 Hindu gods, perhaps), the chances are that your players won’t either. The transfer of names around the world has happened by all manner of means anyway: migration, conquest, literature, trade. Any or all of these could have expanded to fill the gap left by a particular religion in your world, so that the same stock of names ended up in each culture, giving the same flavour to the setting. If you want to exclude such names, though, just replace them when they turn up with the nearest non-religious names, or generic fantasy names from the provided lists. Some of the recognisably theophoric names could have the names of gods replaced. For instance, the Arabic religious epithet ‘Abd-al-Allah’ (servant of Allah) could become Abd-al-Wotan (servant of Odin), Abd-al-Moloch, or a hundred other such titles referring to the gods or demons of your world. Forbidden Names Custom plays a large part in keeping names to a standard set, but in many past and present societies, some names might not be permissible. America today allows almost complete freedom, to the point where some registered names are unsuitable for printing here. Few other countries allow such licence; most have restrictions ranging from mild to severe. King, Queen, Duke, Earl, Baron, and so on cannot be registered as personal names in Britain, because there they are living titles. In France, Napoleon required babies to be given French names for all official purposes. There is still limited variety in adopted foreign names and newly coined local ones, and dubious names can be refused registration. German names are likewise regulated, and the same applies to most Scandinavian countries. In Finland, a name must be Finnish and suitable–there are guidelines, but local officials decide. Adopting family names is forbidden in Iceland. A few exist, but nine tenths of the populace use traditional patronymics (rarely, metronymics), so the phone book is arranged by first names! (Icelandic names are much the same as Old Norse.) Under the old communist government, Mongolian family names were banished and their centuries—-old family trees confiscated, so that the nation used only personal names for over six decades. Mongolians have only lately begun trying to recover their ancestral names. In Morocco, the government recently outlawed Berber names and limited new registrations to approved Arabic names; Algeria is similarly restrictive. This has caused some strife in those countries. In the past, too, names have been forbidden. King James VI proscribed and abolished the name McGregor: it could not be spoken in Scotland for over a century. In China, no one could bear the same name as the Emperor, so some circumspect renaming occurred at times. In primitive communities, name taboos are rife and multifarious; their breach might be unlucky, offensive, a felony, or a capital crime. Tribe members might never speak their own names, but instead have someone else relay them. The names of relations or spouses might have to be avoided. The names of chiefs or kings might become sacred and not to be spoken upon accession (titles would be used instead). Often, the names of the recently dead were taboo. If the taboo or sacred names were words describing everyday animals and objects (often the case with tribal cultures), then new words or circumlocutions would have to be coined for the prohibited names and sometimes similar words as well. Such a taboo could at times be permanent, resulting in a changing vocabulary, and poor historical records. In your campaign, you could use plot hooks depending on name proscription or taboo (“Why do people go deathly quiet and edge away when we ask about Gilnar?”), strife such as that in North Africa, and so on. The penalty for using a title like ‘Duke’ as a name could be severe. In a fantasy world, forbidden names could have an aura of power and danger beyond the political, perhaps invoking a curse on the head of the utterer, or attracting the attention of some malign entity. The taboo on speaking the name of a recently-dead person, for instance, was because it was thought that that might evoke his ghost - in some places, that belief might be well-founded. You also have, if you wish, a real-world justification for name restrictions. It may be important that characters from various regions in the world have suitable names, with would-be forest barbarians using Germanic names and so on. Most gamers will be happy to go along. You might also want to dissuade the taste-challenged from calling an elf lord Steeple Bumpstead (although ridicule from all and sundry is both more effective and a good role-playing opportunity). An ‘adventuring name’ could be something like that, but players inevitably want something more fitting should their characters achieve honour and renown. As with all things, this shouldn’t be too serious, just enough to get the maximum enjoyment from the game, which is had when players care enough to play well. Historical and Literary Sources You need to take care if you use famous names in your campaign. Close similarities to names from history or fiction may conjure up associations for those familiar with them. If the name of your peaceable kingdom sounds like the site of an infamous battle or massacre, for instance, knowledgeable folk may assume you mean this as a foreshadowing of doom, and this may hang like an ominous cloud on the horizon. If you name your gaming thief girl Kohn-anne, most people hearing the name will suppose it refers to Robert Howard’s mighty—thewed barbarian Conan - quite the wrong picture. (If you create materials for publication, of course, you should adapt or be inspired by fictional names rather than just taking them or else there is a possibility of catching some sort of disease from buzzing smelly swarms of unsanitary lawyers.) Honorifics Honorifics may be rare or neglected altogether in informal or uncivil societies such as our own, or may be an important part of a society, as in Japan. They help to set a tone. A society with many honorifics is likely to be structured, class-conscious, and formal, ranging from polite and well-ordered to rigidly caste-bound and jealous of prerogatives. One with none at all could be anarchistic, or it could be free and easy-going or (if equality is enforced) the reverse—historically, societies where everyone is addressed as ‘citizen’ or ‘comrade’ are likely to be oppressive. Honorifics in the form of coined syllables or short titles can provide an easy way to adorn and distinguish invented cultures, whether human or fantastic. A highly structured society would be perfect for trying out elaborate systems of honorifics where the precise term used depends on the relation between the speaker and the one addressed, and perhaps the time or place as well (a simple matrix for the gamemaster; a source of endless embarrassment, confusion, and potential danger for the players’ characters). Honorifics can also be used to reward characters: a series of prefixes or suffixes tied to status can help make social prestige as desirable as gold and gems. Reputation Anonymity does avoid problems if one is likely to get in trouble, but you can’t build a reputation for good or ill without a name. A consistent alias like Zorro may do, but a string of aliases builds no reputation and thus gains no benefits for the bearer. A name is synonymous with repute, and a good name is the most precious possession. The ultimate sword, shield, and spell are in the end mere tools, it is the wielder who makes the difference for weal or woe. His name goes forth into the world, his deeds are sung of by the bards. Likewise, a party of adventurers must have a name to build a reputation. Changing members will affect that reputation, unless one person within the group outshines the rest. (Consider an adventuring company to be something like a rock band: are they equal luminaries, or is there a charismatic leader about whom the rest revolve?) Reputation might be part of a game, with mechanics to cover it, or just be assumed. Perhaps a fledgeling adventurer is famous in his village, one about half-way through the ranks is famous in his country, and one at the top of his profession or limit of his skill is known across the continent, if not the world. The campaign effects should usually be positive, gaining the bearer favourable reactions and help in many ways through others’ admiration (or fear). There could also be drawbacks in some circumstances, such as pursuit by crowds of admirers (or enraged mobs if the reputation is bad), and the possibility that duellists might seek to gain repute by slaying famous adventurers. Reputation, like weaponry and armour, requires constant care and attention. Rulers could have bards sing their praises, but the usual way that warriors maintained and bolstered their reputations was the hero’s boast, a recounting of mighty deeds. This took various forms depending on the culture. At a mead-hall feast, say, warriors might recount their ancestry, then regale the revellers with their achievements. The Nordic way was to tell the truth, albeit polished for best effect. The Irish way was to lie as outrageously as possible, but in such a way that it could not be contradicted. (If you claimed to have killed three brothers with a single spear-cast, they should not have survived the battle!) In either case, to dispute the boast casts doubt on the warrior’s honour, so unless he recanted and was shamed, it was effectively a challenge to combat (or perhaps a drinking contest). If the story was well told and unchallenged, the warrior’s reputation was burnished anew. Gamemastering Names It is assumed that you will ease yourself into this, and seek to master pronunciation and so on, if you so desire, gradually. It is best not to introduce hundreds of different names and scores of different name types per game session, despite having the capacity to do so. Overdoing it may leave players shocked and awed (look for glazed eyes, forlorn expressions, an air of incomprehension) and your hard work will be wasted. Moderation in all things! To maintain the fluid confidence that characterises the true gamemaster, you might want to practise unfamiliar names before a game. That way, they will flow like honey from your tongue, and you will be the cynosure of all ears. Halting and stumbling pronunciation will spoil the effect somewhat. Should this unfortunate eventuality come to pass, and unruly players roll about the floor laughing, you may need to bring them to heel. While I would not venture to suggest any particular course of action, I will point out that this tome has heft, and its sudden and forceful application to sensitive extremities may have a salutary chastening effect. Apt Names Choosing the right name is important. Names may tend to become mere labels after constant use, but first impressions last. Authors can agonise for ages over the right names for their creations, and for good reason: names help shape characters in the mind of a reader. Consider the names Myrtle and Krystal— which would you pick as an ancient schoolmarm? a trendy airhead? Our reactions to a name are based on many things: general knowledge, word association, the general sound and ‘feel’ of the name. Although we might not consciously realise it, BOOK OF NAMES 18 most of us have some understanding of such things. We can usually say if a name sounds Spanish or Dutch, male or female, old-fashioned or modern, and we often have expectations about the person to whom such a name belongs. Sir Valentine Durandal Montmorency is obviously a noble, not a typical peasant goat.herd. G’rukth Krugg does not suit a friendly alien or an elfin princess; neither would you call a stable hand Zorak Dar, Jeddak of Jeddaks! Place-names also conjure up specific atmospheres and expectations. Role-playing doesn’t need to be as strict as writing when naming characters and places. After all, the excitement is in the play, and this helps cover a multitude of minor lapses. At its best, though, as with imaginative fiction, it creates a consensual illusory world for its participants, and everything that supports that illusion for the game session helps—including the good use of names. An apt name is one that fits the bearer. It may be a simple matter of race: someone called Demosthenes should be Greek; if you want to play a Viking, then a Norse name gets you halfway into character. It’s like the proper costume when acting. Many names of course can apply anywhere—which is as well, since one wouldn’t want to be too unsubtle. (“President ‘Handin Sock’, you say? Clearly a puppet ruler.”) It is still better if names on the whole suit what they describe, conveying a sense of the person or place. This is salient for campaigns, since a discernible pattern not only sustains the atmosphere, but makes the world seem less arbitrary, and can even provide clues. After a while, adventurers might be able to deduce things from a name: “Maryam? That’s a desert nomad name isn’t it?” or something of the sort. In a fantasy world where the gamemaster wants to create a sense of wonder by treating the players to fresh and evocatively-named places and people, jarringly ill-suited names break the spell. For made-up names, the sound is all one has to go on, but in fact, the same expectations, based on what we’re used to, underlie our reactions to all names; English, foreign, or fantastic. To understand these assumptions, and hence to be able to choose an apt-sounding name, whether heroic, sophisticated, or homely, we need to look more closely at our language and naming conventions. Expectations and English What follows are generalisations for native speakers of English, so it won’t necessarily apply to other languages and cultures. From a Chinese viewpoint, English might seem full of strange consonants, with no tonal subtlety. From a German one, English might seem insipid: not the invigorating sort of language that keeps one’s throat cleared and can startle a horse at ten paces. The judgements expressed here about the sound and feel of names may seem suspect to non-Anglophones. Be that as it may, we must start somewhere, and English, language of champions, it is. Rhythm and Stress A common pattern for English names is two words of two syllables, forename and surname. We are also used to a single stress per word. This pattern is therefore as familiar and nondescript as wallpaper. Using the same rhythm in fantastic names can make them sound mundane or homely. Tolkien chose to do this for his hobbits: Frodo Baggins, Samwise Gamgee. With this pattern, and sounds not too removed from the norm, the hobbits immediately seem to us to be normal and comfort.able, a familiar lens through which to see a different world. A two-two pattern of fantastic names can be useful to stop settings seeming too exotic, and to keep some continuity with our world. On the other hand, varying the rhythm keeps things lively, and helps one tell characters apart. This applies even in a medieval fantasy setting, where surnames might not be used: rather than having an endless list of two-syllable names, vary the lengths to add interest. As well as single names, try a few compound personal names, with the main stress on the short word: a name like Dor Kikkur or Kikkinda Dor generally works. The stress and length of names affects their character. A single strong stress tends to give a strong name, whereas more syllables weaken the effect. This is why heroes get names like Dirk Weston or James Bond (the latter has two strong stresses, very direct and aggressive) rather than Maximilian Fitzsimmons (all the force of a fluffy bunny). If the sounds are right, though, lengthier names can seem more sophisticated (Renaissance Italian names seem to be perceived this way), and a long rolling name may gain in sonority what it loses in directness. Male and Female Created He Them With few exceptions, English male personal names can be easily told apart from female ones, and not just through familiarity. Males names are often monosyllabic and rarely of three or more syllables. Female names and their pet forms tend to be longer. Nearly all male names are stressed on the first syllable, only three-quarters of female names. Female names more often stress the high /i/, as in Lisa or Mimi. Female names are also more likely to end in a spoken vowel (Linda, Marie) or softer endings (Ann, Doris) than male names (Bob, David, Jock). Sabrina is one of the most feminine names, since it follows all the typical patterns. We tend to expect female names to be more graceful and delicate, although there is of course a wide range, from Amabel (very pretty) to Gertrude (hmmm). People often look to the endings when mentally classifying unfamiliar names, so it’s worthwhile keeping them in mind when naming characters. Feminine endings have distinctive patterns, as shown here. Feminine endings: -a, -e, -een, -elle, -ene, -et, -ette, -ia, -ice, -ina, -ine, -issa, -ita, -la. More: -ara, -bel, -beth, -da, -dra, -ella, -enna, -etta, -iel, -ienna, -iet, -illa, -ind, -is, -itta, -lene, -mi, -on, -ra, -ri, -rine, -sha, -ula, -yssa. Many of our current feminine endings came into English from other languages, either from classical gender inflections (Alexander/Alexandra, Julius/Julia), or quite frequently from French diminutives. Often, guesses based on endings about the sex of a name-bearer will be correct, therefore, at least for Romance languages. At times they will be dead wrong. Some cultures use the same names pool for both sexes. The name of Thor’s daughter was Thrud (‘might’), which may sound guttural and masculine to us, but was fine for the Norse. (Should you care to disparage, those large Vikings over there with the sharp battle-axes would like a word.) When using foreign and made-up names, it’s best to stick to expectations. A blunt or forceful name like Darg or Rathek should belong to a male. There’s plenty of scope for female names, from the beautiful Lirazel or Jaelithe (princess or enchantress), to the tougher but still feminine Britomart or Rifkind (warrior-maid). The strongest English female name is Kate, which contrives to be direct without being masculine, and is a good name for an action heroine (or then, there’s that Shakespeare play…). Sound and Meaning Whether we use standard names or create original ones, they may seem to carry some meaning because of the way they sound. Onomatopoeia (use of words that imitate sounds) plays a part. The earliest words, names of things, may have been formed by imitating sounds made by those things: the crackle of fire, the buzz of bees. The Ancient Egyptian word for cat is ‘mau’, for instance. With a more advanced vocabulary and language, guesses at meaning may be based on the sounds of existing words. The association that native speakers make of particular sounds with some form of symbolic meaning is known as phonaesthesia. This is something we can use to select or construct fantasy names that suit the people, species, and places they describe. It is an art, not a science, and there are exceptions to all the generalisations that follow! Close vowels hint at smallness and open vowels largeness: chip/ chop, slit/slot, wrinkle/rumple, wee, titch, little/vast, large, grand. /gl-/ suggests light: glamour, glare, glass, gleam, glimmer, glint, glisten, glossy, glow. The brightness may be metaphorical: glad, glee, glib, glide, glory. /sl-/ suggests down-going: slack, slant, slash, slaughter, slender, slip, slot, slouch, slow, sluice, slump. It is often negative: slag, slap, sleazy, slime, slob, slop, slovenly, sludge, slum, sly. /sn-/ suggests unpleasantness: snafu, snag, snail, snarl, sneak, sneer, sniff, snitch, snivel, snob, snot, snub. /sw-/ suggests smooth or wide movement: swagger, swallow, swarm, sway, swell, swill, swerve, swipe, swirl, swivel, swoop. /wr-/ suggests twisting or crookedness: wrangle, wrap, wreath, wrench, wrestle, wriggle, wring, wrinkle, wrist, writhe, wrong, wry. /-b/ after a short vowel suggests largeness or an aimless, shapeless quality: blab, blob, clobber, club, flab, gab, glob, gob, grab, grub, lob, mob, rub, slab, slob, tub, yob. /-l/ after a short vowel and (double) consonant suggests vagueness, repetition, or a trivial or comic quality: babble, bubble, chuckle, dabble, dapple, doodle, dribble, fiddle, freckle, giggle, gobble, haggle, jiggle, joggle, muddle, nibble, pebble, piffle, puddle, rabble, rustle, snaffle, stubble, topple, trickle, waffle, waggle, wobble. /-p/ after a short vowel suggests quickness or shortness: blip, bop, chop, clap, clip, clop, dip, drip, flap, flip, flop, hop, lop, nap, nip, pip, pop, quip, rip, slap, skip, snap, sip, tap, trap, trip, whip. /-sh/ suggests swift or strong movement: bash, brash, clash, crash, crush, dash, flash, gash, gush, lash, mash, push, rash, rush, splash, swish, whoosh. /-url/ and /-r-l/ suggest roundness: barrel, curl, furl, gnarl, pearl, purl, roll, spiral, twirl, whirl, whorl. BOOK OF NAMES 20 Curses, insults, and swearwords are associated with harsh, plosive, unpleasant sounds, usually short and forceful. An initial or final /b/, /d/, /k/, or /p/, a final /t/, or a middle or final /g/ all seem to help vicious invective, mainly when paired with short vowels. Here is a partial list of words that can be used offensively. bitch, bloody, boob, bozo, brat, bugger, bum, cack, chink, chump, clap, clod, clot, crap, creep, cretin, crone, crook, crud, dago, damn, dink, dolt, dope, dork, dreck, drip, fart, geek, gink, git, gook, goop, hag, hick, hog, kook, kraut, lug, lunk, mug, nerd, nit, pig, pimp, piss, prat, puke, punk, quack, sap, schmuck, skunk, slag, slob, slut, sod, tart, tit, turd, twerp, wimp, wog, yid, zip. Beauty, peace, and grace are often conveyed by gentle, smooth, soft-vowelled words. Such words are generally of more than one syllable, and are especially likely to contain /l/ and /m/; with /s/, /r/, /t/, /d/, /k/, and /n/ also popular. Pleasant vowel sounds include the unstressed /e/ sound (latter, sofa), /i/ (him, big), /a/ (sat), /o/ (low), short /e/ (get, led), long /e/ (sea, see), and /uh/ (sun, son). There are fewer agreeable words than harsh ones in the language (which may tell us something about ourselves), but here is a brief list of words widely considered pleasant. autumn, blossom, caress, celandine, chrysalis, crystal, dawn, dream, dusk, elbow, elms, flowing, golden, gossamer, grace, harmony, immemorial, ivory, lace, laughter, leman, life, limb, love, lovely, lullaby, magic, meander, mellifluous, mellow, melody, mesmerism, mistress, misty, murmur, noble, olden, peace, rose, satin, shimmer, silken, silvery, sleep, slow, tranquil, twilight, vellum, velvet, whisper, willow, youth. Aptitudes The expectations discussed can be elaborated upon, a thousand shadings applied from history and literature. For instance, female names often seem to use sounds indicating smallness or brightness. The effect of particular sounds is intensified by repetition, so the high tripping syllables of Piccadilly make it sound light and frivolous, whereas the slow, even syllables of Stonehenge make it sound solid, massive, and ponderous; each name thus perfectly suits the place it describes. It is certainly easier to recognise names that seem innately right than to create them: that is akin to writing good poetry. It is quite difficult to create a name that hints at both strength and grace, say, or both flabbiness and perfidy! It doesn’t always work and can’t be forced. It is best just to let the names come naturally and be aware of the overtones, using the phonemes to flesh out the skeleton. Most things are easier; one is generally just trying to keep to the sunny uplands rather than scaling the dizzying peaks of perfection. If you make up a word with elements of abuse in it (e.g. drokk), it could be suitable for an enemy, something nasty, or a swearword; one with serene elements (e.g. ilmeras) could be suitable for a friend or something pleasant. Trying to fool players by using harsh names for peaceable folk and so on only works if it is unexpected, so if you do it at all, make the occurrence unique. Fantasy might seem predictable at times, but that is not entirely bad, and its axioms are its own. There is no need to pollute its bright streams with dreary modern clichés (i.e., all who appear good or reputable are rotten at the core; all who appear bad or disreputable have hearts of gold; no good deed goes unpunished; et cetera). There are further groups of words with related sounds and meanings. For instance an initial stressed /-al/ or /-ar/ might suggest heroism or nobility: ardent, clarion, gallant, paladin, valiant, valour, and so on. Such a similarity is rarely because they derive from the same root word. Names in particular may carry associations through coincidental sound-patterns far from any etymological roots. Nonetheless, if there are half a dozen words with common sounds and similar meanings, then a made-up name containing such sounds may well (other things being equal) hint at that sort of meaning. New words are coined all the time in the real world by patterning the words after existing words, often taking the meaning from Greek and Latin roots, or using just their endings. Greek and Roman influence led to many names of provinces and countries ending with ‘-ia’, so we half-expect a word with that ending to be a country. Other place-name endings immediately bring to mind towns and villages. Likewise, ‘-ite’ is a common ending for rock types, so if a substance is called lejendite, say, we assume it is some sort of rock or mineral. Other examples abound. In Brief What seems noble, funny, exotic, or threatening may depend on personal taste to some extent, but we can make some pretty solid generalisations based on our language and culture. In general, a name that seems right is the sort of name we associate with the person or place named. Knowing what to look for should help in name choices. The sounds and patterns of a name can suggest a particular culture or era, or race, sex, vocation, or personality. A short, forceful name suits a male hero. Higher, lighter sounds and certain endings suit female characters. Long sonorous names, or at least those that seem substantial and powerful, are suitable for magicians. The world’s powerful Magi would consider their dignity lessened by meagre names like Tjim, Brob, and so on, and would instead choose impressive multisyllabic or compound names. Our expectations of fantasy races and places shapes what we see as proper names for them as well. Expectations are based on experience, so in order to better recognise a good fantasy name, one should read lots of good fantasy - hardly a burden! To experience real name mastery in action, read the stories of five masters of fantasy whose work is replete with well-wrought and aptly used names: Lord Dunsany, Fritz Leiber, Clark Ashton Smith, J.R.R. Tolkein, and Jack Vance. Names and Magic A name is a label, a set of sounds that designates something or someone. Its relation to what it denotes is largely arbitrary - but realising this took philosophers millennia, and even today, superstitious beliefs about names linger. There haven’t been many ships called ‘Titanic’ since the ill-fated original, for instance. Seeking patterns and making causal links is how the mind works, and thus how we see the world. Even if the perceived patterns are unreal, we prefer a good story to bare facts. Names do have a sort of magic, though, even in the mundane world. If someone says your name, it gets your attention. A name can open doors, at least metaphorically, if it glitters with an aura of fame and celebrity. And a name can conjure up expectations and emotions based on associated sounds and past experience. It is not too difficult to imagine a milieu where some of the various beliefs about names were true… The Power of Names Most primitive peoples believed that names were important, even equal to their object, so ‘to be called’ could as well mean ‘to be’. To name something could call it into being in the mind of the listener, and it must have seemed only a short step from there to being able to create it or have power over it in reality. This was all well and good, but must have eventually posed a dilemma. If to name something was to have power over it, why couldn’t anyone say “Water!” and have a refreshing spring appear? If people’s names gave one power over them, why did it not seem to work in everyday life? (Beyond getting their attention, that is.) The answers seem to have been twofold, and fairly standard. Firstly, it was obvious that unseen forces coursed through the world: gods, spirits, perhaps currents of mystic energy. Something or someone must carry the fiery orb of the sun across the sky, for instance. Evidently only those especially gifted or skilled could see or manipulate the lesser forces, or intercede with the greater ones, for good or ill. These powerful few were shamans, priests, or magicians, and only they could make magical use of things. Such people could work magic upon a man if they had a part of him in their possession, such as his hair or nails, or indeed his name, since it was just as closely identified with him as the rest. (In fact, the name was so much a part of the person that some believed that reusing the name of an ancestor would bestow his virtues and character on a child, even that the deceased would thereby be reborn, his soul transferred with the name.) Secondly, the ordinary names by which things were known must not be the ‘true names’ that gave power over them. Perhaps the essential names of things were lost knowledge from a time when men walked with the gods; forgotten after a fall from grace. Shamans and so on might be the ones who knew a few of these names, or could find them out, and this was the source of their power. It was only the real or true name that enabled charms to affect the individual. Sometimes there really were secret names given to individuals, either to be used only on sacred or special occasions, or never to be divulged. Australian aborigines bestowed such a second name, known to none but initiates of the tribe; the ordinary personal name could be used freely, but the other was a solemn secret. The ancient Egyptians had a similar system, with a carefully concealed ‘true name’ and a public-use ‘good name’. They believed all beings had true names by which they might be controlled, even the gods. In Egyptian myth, Isis gained immortality by learning the true name of Ra. Each Egyptian magician aspired to emulate such a feat, sparing no effort to find the true names of both mortal and immortal beings and so force them to obey him. The Romans and Assyrians thought that cities had mystic names too. It was forbidden to divulge them, presumably lest an enemy thereby cause their fortunes (or walls) to fail. Remnants of these ideas clung on in the Middle Ages. Medieval grimoires were filled with ‘names of power’ with which magicians would seek to direct mystic forces or compel entities to appear and do their bidding. These names of power were sometimes the names of old gods and demons (mostly forgotten Hebrew and Greek entities) that were thought to contain or transmit the power of their bearer. They were used indirectly, not to affect the beings named, but usually to help to invoke and constrain other spirits. In order to help the magician in his task, they might be inscribed around pentacles and magic circles, engraved on items, or chanted during incantations. Divination by Names At various times and in various cultures, people have thought that names were tied up with fate or character, and could either influence or reveal them. In early times, when names had meaning, parents might try to imbue their child with desired qualities by giving him a name like Heroic Lion rather than, say, Cowardly Rabbit. As people and cultures became more sophisticated, developed written language, and so on, their superstitions became more sophisticated too, rather than just evaporating. The forms they took varied, but usually involved a belief that an invisible fate or affinity with the cosmos lurked about the visible characters of a written name. Sometimes arithmetic was involved. The letters of a name could be assigned numeric values in various ways, and these numbers summed or otherwise manipulated in order to make predictions, describe character, or discover hidden meanings (Greeks, Chaldeans, and Hebrews all used such methods). Where symbols rather than letters were used, such as in Japan,the number of strokes in a written character might be the determining factor. In traditional Oriental belief, the influence of a name through form, sound, and meaning was moderated by, and should be balanced with, astrological factors based on birth date and the five elements of Chinese theory (metal, wood, water, fire, and earth). This interaction was sufficiently complex that as a rule professional name-makers would be employed to fashion a name to ensure success in life. Believers in such methods might use them to make predictions about someone’s character and likely behaviour based on his or her name, or to determine a ‘lucky number’ or even compatibility with a future spouse. So as to improve their lot, they might also change their names, or the spelling thereof, with changing circumstances. Onomancy The formal term for divination by names is onomancy. Necromancy and sorcery were also originally forms of divination (by summoning the spirits of the dead and casting lots, respectively). In both popular belief and fantasy fiction, they have grown to encompass stronger forms of black magic. Onomancy, too, could expand from mere divination to something more potent for game purposes, perhaps by incorporating some of the ideas concerned with true names and names of power. The specifics of such an ability would depend on the game system. Some general speculation follows. The relatively passive powers of onomancy would likely be the same as those accomplished by other means of divination - tea.leaves, flights of birds, the movements of stars. One could predict the future, analyse character, or forecast the reactions of an individual or group to various events, situations, and offers. Other areas of prowess might include name lore (legends, hidden meanings, and cryptography), and the ability to bestow some modest benison or to avoid misfortune by choosing an appropriate name, whether for a child, boat, or adventuring company. An onomancer might change bad luck or even remove a curse with advanced powers. Reputations could be made to wax or wane. Magical renaming might mask or reshape someone’s identity, removing him or her from magical observation or influence of all but the most potent varieties. The ability to discover names of power would be the onomancer’s next step in mastery. The use of names of power would be ancillary, aiding in other endeavours. Their proper exercise might allow better success in summoning entities and better control of those entities on arrival. It might be possible to usurp someone else’s name magically, thereby gaining or transferring his repute and power (albeit not his worldly goods, without further effort). This could be temporary or permanent, and would not be easy. The powerful would certainly ward against it, perhaps with their own onomantic masking. The ability to discover and use true names would be the most potent power of all. If it were possible, then almost anything could be accomplished, given the right situation, and knowledge of what to do. True Names True names really do open up a cavern of wyrms. They would be easier to deal with in a near-future cyberpunk game: the true name of a hacker would simply be his identity in the real world. Knowledge of it would allow blackmail, extortion, and control under threat of revealing it to the authorities. (Vernor Vinge’s story ‘True Names’ uses this premise.) In the way they’re usually understood in fantasy fiction, true names are very much a two.bOOK OF NAMES 23 edged sword. Quite inexperienced wizards could cast common spells to dominate or slay anyone whose true name was known to them. Magic-wielding characters could gain great power, possibly as unbalancing as getting a divine bodyguard, but it is far more likely that characters could lose all to a tyro at any point. Neither outcome is desirable for a campaign. Still, the concept of true names is part of the weave of fantasy, and it would be a pity to discard it completely. It can be employed in fantasy games if we define carefully what a true name is and moderate how it can be used. First of all, should everyone have an Egyptian-style secret ‘true name’ as well as a public name? I’d suggest not. It means double the work in naming people for a start, even if the secret names are not magical true names! If they are, it’s hard to imagine any circumstances where a player would ever voluntarily divulge a character’s true name, since it means that character would effectively be finished. If the gamemaster is similarly chary, true names will never come into play; if he is not, the player characters gain excessive sway in the campaign world. A more useful approach is that true names are mystical, and not known to any but the most powerful bearers of such names and most ardent seekers of knowledge. They could be precise descriptions in the language of magic of a thing or being, just as a chemical formula is of a substance. If we take this analogy one step further, the true name is more like the formal chemical name of a substance - which tells an experienced chemist its exact molecular structure, and thus gives a good idea of its properties, how to make it, and so on. As an example, the ordinary name for table sugar is sucrose; the formal chemical name is alpha-D.glucopyranosyl beta-D-fructofuranoside. This reveals all to a chemist, but not a lot to anyone else! From the foregoing, one can see that true names need not be simple, and might indeed only be understood or be able to be used by those with specialist experience. Perhaps only onomancers could determine or make full use of them. Harking back to the myth of Isis, her magic had to be powerful enough to affect Ra initially before she could manipulate him into revealing his true name. The limits of the use of a true name should be determined by the user’s power, and the range of specific magicks he or she can employ to take advantage of the knowledge, rather than allowing open slather to anyone who happened to find one out. (Although blackmail and so on under threat of revealing the true name to someone who could use it would still be possible.) As to how to use a true name, it can be thought of as a targeting aid. Not that it helps lightning bolts fly that much straighter! The sort of magic aided would usually be that affecting a particular individual, object, or substance directly rather than through evoking some general external force. A true name gives unambiguous identification of a person, place, or thing, and so allows magic to be used more effectively. (Perhaps by baring to the knowledgeable its magical structure and hence any weak points, or simply by ensuring the magic is concentrated on one spot.) A particular magic spell might work normally via visual identification, external description, or general knowledge of the target. Knowing the ordinary name of the target might reduce the chance to avoid the effect. Knowing the true name of the target might ensure the magic has its full effect with no chance of avoidance. The three states correspond to going from outer ring to inner ring to bullseye. It’s rather like using precision weapons: accurate targeting lets one do more damage with less force. By corollary, sufficiently potent beings may not require true names in order for their magic to be unstoppable. It is usually supposed that yielding ordinary names to a powerful dragon or demon is quite enough to let the creature control the unwary (through its other powers rather than by ceding instant thralldom, in general). This works both ways, since a powerful magician can summon beings from elsewhere if he knows the (ordinary) names by which to conjure them. In their dealings with each other, magicians, demons, elementals, and so on would be sure to conceal their real names by falsehoods, or, if they were compelled to some measure of truth, behind nicknames, aliases, and cryptic allusions. If true names can come into play, even with the limitations discussed, then they will be guarded by those aware of them to the best of their abilities. All forms of magical and mundane concealment, misdirection, and deception will be employed. It may even be possible for an exceptionally strong entity to change its true name in extremis, although doing so might change its essential nature. Naturally, obtaining the true name of a powerful being should be somewhere between extremely difficult and impossible. Quests for major relics would pale in comparison. Attempting to use such a name could prove equally fraught. The most elementary precautions taken by powerful beings might be that their true names could not be pronounced by human voices at all, were of multiple parts, or were in the form of potent spells that extracted the speaker’s true name and informed all interested parties, or annihilated him directly. Book Two People britain A History of Names in Britain People, languages, and their locations rarely remain fixed for long - cultures and races merge, split up, migrate, and disappear over the span of history, and names with them. For those interested, this passage details how names changed in Britain. It is still quite simplified, which should make clear why detailed histories of every land are not included! The prehistoric British who built Stonehenge came from Europe thousands of years ago. Several waves of different Celts (who were a diverse lot) came to Britain from Europe from about the 4th century BC onwards, and merged with the locals. They used a stock of single personal names and patronymics, and left place names across the country. The Romans came, saw, and conquered most of Britain in the first century AD, then left again several hundred years later. They had some influence on language but less on the names of places and people, since Latin-speaking Britons used few Roman names, and many of them left for Gaul during the invasion by the tribes of Angles and Saxons (and Jutes) that took place soon after the Roman departure. From the 5th century onwards, the Anglo-Saxons encroached gradually from east to west, assimilating some Celtic Britons and pushing others to Wales and Cornwall. Latin names in those areas were adapted to the local tongue, which, along with local names, continued to be used for many years; elsewhere, Anglo-Saxon dominated. The Romans hadn’t pressed north into Caledonia, as they called it. The Angles did advance into the lowlands, but stopped when invaders from Ireland, called Scots, came soon after, supplanting or absorbing the native highland Picts. That country then became Scotland. The Anglo-Saxons only had personal names: usually, by the 9th century, formed by combinations of a set of stock elements. There were a great many possible names - certainly enough that everyone in the local community had a unique name. Although duplicates might arise in different localities, names were not deliberately repeated. Famous ancestors were in fact honoured by not re-using their names. The Anglo-Saxons held onto their names despite familiarity with others, whether continental (through royal marriages), or classical and biblical (by the 7th century, they were Christian, reknowned for both their scholars and saints). Personal names were applied freely to places settled as the clans advanced, though, where there was no name to take over or adapt. Hybrid place names were common. In the 9th century, Danes invaded and settled the north-east, England and Scotland, bringing with them their own names and naming patterns for places and people, adapting existing place names and assigning new ones. The Norwegians followed. The Scandinavians, unlike the Anglo-Saxons, happily re-used the names of their ancestors, and also often named offspring after a friend, a famous chief, and so on. This pattern took over from the preceding one, helping to create a smaller pool of names. More duplicates meant there was a need to tell people with the same personal names apart. Extra names - temporary surnames now often called bynames - were added to help identify people. Bynames derived from various sources: locality (general and specific place names), relationship (usually patronymic: John’s son and so on), trades (butcher, baker), and physical, mental, or moral traits (short, clod, miser). This was no more planned than the forming of place names, which were likewise just taken from everyday speech as they were needed. The Normans arrived in and conquered England in the 11th century. By then place names were well established. Few Normans settled initially since they ruled rather than farmed, thus changing only a few names, although since they spoke French and wrote Latin to start with, some spellings were altered, influencing later pronunciation. Their personal names were fixed, unlike the Anglo-Saxon element-names. Now that the custom of avoiding prior names out of respect was past, imitation by the populace of these new feudal lords, together with the later adoption of biblical Christian names, probably encouraged by the Church, led to most Anglo-Saxon personal names being replaced by the 13th century. (Many surnames survived, however.) Normans used an even a smaller pool of personal names than the Scandinavians, and so most had bynames (for nobles, those of their estates). Second names became needed to identify people unequivocally in legal documents, and these proved convenient enough that they were adopted as permanent identifiers. By the 14th century, most of the English had inheritable surnames, and from the 15th century nearly everyone had one. Once rooted, they quickly became used as the normal form of address, with the use of personal names being confined to family and those friends granted the privilege (a custom lasting from 1450 to 1950, more or less). Since English spelling wasn’t uniform early on, and dialects also led to differences, many forms of the same name were recorded. A few Scandinavians had come to Ireland, but it was still predominantly Gaelic when the Normans invaded it in the 12th century. Further English settlement thereafter added English names, and simplified Irish ones. Anglo-Norman forces conquered Wales by the early 14th century, although the natives held onto local names and used patronymic bynames for some time, despite settlement. The clan system in Scotland also delayed the adoption of hereditary surnames there. Since then, the only significant changes in British naming patterns have been the widespread adoption of middle names starting from the 17th century, and the use of some diminutives and pet names as official names in their own right from the mid.18th century. Prior to that, for example, someone called Jack or Johnny would always have been formally registered as John, and someone called Bess, Beth, Betty, Eliza, or Elsie would always have been christened Elizabeth. Fashions in first names changed with the years of course. One fad was the use of Old Testament names and virtue names by the Puritans. This was quickly abandoned with the Restoration, although a few names survived - they lasted better in America, where the Wild West had a full holster of Zachs, Zekes, Mordecais, and Elijahs. Anglo-Saxon ‘Anglo-Saxon’is a modern term for the Dark Ages Germanic tribes who crossed the channel after the Romans left, and came to call themselves the English people (Angelcynn). These names were used by some who remained on the continent as well as the Angles and Saxons who invaded Britain. The Anglo-Saxons had no family names. Their personal names were usually formed from a pair of stock vocabulary elements; meanings were mostly ignored. Single-element names (old words, bynames, and diminutives) existed, but came to be seen as lowly. A few elements were exclusively male or female, or otherwise restricted—for instance, aethel (noble), cyne (royal, king), and cwen (queen) were only used by those of high lineage. Some elements were always first (such as aethel), some last; most could be either. Alliteration was a feature of Anglo-Saxon naming as well as poetry. The children of a family would often have names starting with the same letter, if not the same element. For instance, Eadmund and his wife Aelfflaed might have three sons Eadric, Ealdwine, and Ecgwulf, and a daughter Eadgyth. Single-element Names Spelling was not uniform, and was simplified over time (Eadgyth and Aelfraed had become Edith and Alfred soon after the Conquest). Older spellings are used here, so it’s frith not frid, beorht not bert or bryht, and Aethelraed, not Ethelred. Pronunciation Stress is on the first syllable. There are some differences from modern English. All consonants in a combination are pro.nounced, as a rule, but the /sc/ is like the /sh/ of ‘shy’ and /cg/ like the /j/ in ‘jar’. The /cw/ is the same as /q/ in ‘queen’. The /c/ and /g/ are usually hard, but become more like /ch/ or /y/ respectively before /i/ or /e/ or after /i/, and the /g/ is soft when ending a word. An /h/ at the start of a word is strongly aspirated. The vowels have short and long (stressed) forms. The /a/ is as in ‘uh’ or ‘art’, and /e/ as in ‘bed’ or ‘lake’: final e’s are pronounced. The /i/ is as in ‘bit’ or ‘bead’, the /o/ as in ‘pod’ or ‘pour’, the /u/ as in ‘bull’ or ‘moon’, and the /y/ something like ‘yih’ or ‘yeeh’. The /ae/ is as in ‘cat’ or ‘sad’. Dipthongs such as /ea/ and /eo/ slide from one vowel to the next with no break. Some examples: ‘Beowulf’is pronounced Bayoh-wolf, ‘Aethelraed’is Ah-thel-rad, ‘Osric’is Oehs-rich, ‘Wigburg’is Weey-burhh. Acca, Aeaba, Aeffa, Aeldra, Aelfa, Aelle, Aette, Anna, Bass, Beda, Bica, Binni, Blacey, Blithe, Bliths, Blostm, Bondi, Botta, Brand, Brant, Budda, Bugge, Bynni, Cada, Cana, Cearl, Cille, Clac, Cola, Cutha, Cyppe, Denu, Dodda, Eabae, Eafa, Eni, Fearn, Freca, Gal, Geol, Goda, Grim, Hacca, Haele, Haki, Hasta, Hedde, Hengist, Horsa, Hrafn, Hring, Hugi, Ine, Lilla, Moll, Mul, Octa, Offa, Ogga, Orm, Peada, Penda, Praen, Pymma, Reod, Saba, Sebbi, Snel, Sped, Swan, Swein, Thearle, Tofi, Toki, Tole, Tripp, Tubbi, Tukka, Tunni, Wace, Wada, Waed, Warer, Wini, Witta, Wuffa, Yffi * If you want more single-element names, use the elements from the two-element list, either alone or with a diminutive ending: ‘-el’, ‘-ela’, or ‘-la’. Note that ‘-a’ was a maculine ending in Old English: Offa was king, not queen. Hengist and Horsa were the first recorded names in the language. Male Two-element Names Choose two non-rhyming elements to form a name. These selections are typical, not exhaustive. First Common:Aelf,Aethel, Beald, Beorht, Cuth, Cyne, Deor, Ead, Eald, Gar, God, Here, Leof, Os, Sae, Sige, Thur, Wig, Wine, Wulf First:Ac, Aelf, Aenes,Aethel, Aew,Ard,Arm, Baerh, Barda, Bay, Beald, Bel, Beo, Beorht, Beorn, Beran, Bitan, Blac, Blaec, Blaed, Bland, Bote, Bregu, Brun, Burg, Cadda, Caed, Cen, Ceol, Cuic, Cuth, Cyne, Daeg, Daegel, Daegga, Deal, Deor, Dern, Dude, Dun, Ead, Eald, Ealh, Ean, Ear, Ecg, Eofor, Frea, Frith, Gar, Geat, Gisel, Glaed, God, Gold, Graeg, Grim, Guth, Halig, Hard, Hari, Heah, Heana, Heard, Heathu, Helm, Heort, Here, Herle, Hlot, Hoga, Holen, Hrof, Hroth, Hun, Hwit, In, Isen, Kettil, Lang, Leod, Leof, Mael, Maer, Maht, Mund, North, Noth, Oe, Ondes, Ord, Orme, Os, Rand, Raegen, Read, Ric, Rim, Ruh, Run, Sa, Sae, Scroc, Secg, Sel, Sig, Sige, Snel, Stan, Strang, Sunu, Swet, Swith, Theod, Thur, Tila, Tort, Treuwe, Trum, Wacer, Waer, Wald, Walt, Weald, Weard, Wict, Wig, Wil, Wine, Wulf, Wusc Second Common: beald, beorht, frith, gar, geat, hard, heard, here, maer, mund, noth, raed, ric, sige, stan, weald, weard, wig, wine, wulf Second: aeldra, aesc, arm, beald, beorht, beorn, bert, bote, brand, cromb, cyne, deal, deor, dreda, ecg, eofer, frea, frith, fugol, gar, gard, geat, gild, glaed, god, gold, grim, gyr, haele, hard, heah, heard, helm, here, hun, in, kettil, lac, leod, leof, mael, maer, maht, mann, mon, mund, noth, nyd, raed, rand, ric, rim, run, sele, sig, sige, snel, son, stan, sterre, strang, sunu, swith, thorne, uald, wacer, waer, wald, walh, walt, weald, weard, weorth, wict, wig, wil, wine, wini, wise, wold, wulf, wyn Female Two-element Names Choose two non-rhyming elements to form a name. These selections are typical, not exhaustive. First Common:Aelf,Aethel, Beald, Beorht, Cwen, Deor, Ead, Eald, God, Gunn, Hild, Leof, Mild, Os, Sae, Sige, Thur, Wig, Wine, Wulf First:Ac, Aelf,Aenes, Aethel, Aew,Ard,Arm, Baerh, Barda, Bay, Beald, Bel, Beo, Beorht, Beorn, Beran, Bitan, Blac, Blaec, Blaed, Bland, Bote, Bregu, Brun, Burg, Cadda, Caed, Cen, Ceol, Cuic, Cuth, Cwen, Cyne, Daeg, Daegel, Daegga, Deal, Deor, Dern, Dude, Dun, Ead, Eald, Ealh, Ean, Ear, Ecg, Eofor, Frea, Frith, Gar, Geat, Gisel, Glaed, God, Gold, Graeg, Grim, Gunn, Guth, Halig, Hard, Hari, Heah, Heana, Heard, Heathu, Helm, Heort, Here, Herle, Hild, Hlot, Hoga, Holen, Hrof, Hroth, Hun, Hwit, In, Isen, Kettil, Lang, Leod, Leof, Mael, Maer, Maht, Mild, Mund, North, Noth, Oe, Ondes, Ord, Orme, Os, Raegen, Rand, Read, Ric, Rim, Ruh, Run, Sa, Sae, Secg, Sele, Sig, Sige, Snel, Stan, Strang, Sunu, Swet, Swith, Theod, Thur, Tila, Tort, Treuwe, Trum, Tun, Wacer, Waer, Wald, Walt, Weald, Weard, Wict, Wig, Wil, Wine, Wulf, Wusc Second Common: beald, beorht, burg, flaed, frith, gifu, gyth, here, hild, leofu, maer, or, raed, ric, sige, thryth, waru, weald, wig, wulf Second: aeldra, aesc, arm, beald, beorht, beorn, bert, bote, brand, burg, cromb, cyne, deal, deor, dreda, ecg, eofer, flaed, frea, frith, fugol, gar, geat, gifu, gild, glaed, god, gold, grim, gyr, gyth, haele, hard, heah, heard, helm, here, hild, hun, in, kettil, lac, leod, leofu, mael, maer, maht, mon, noth, nyd, or, raed, rand, ric, rim, run, sele, sig, sige, snel, son, stan, sterre, strang, sunu, swith, thorne, thryth, uald, wacer, wald, walh, waru, walt, weald, weard, weorth, wict, wig, wil, wini, wise, wold, wulf, wyn, wythe Cornish Modern naming patterns are the same as those for English: one or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Digory Daveth Trevelyan. Cornish personal names are now similar to those of the rest of Britain, although some old native forms have been revived, and a few older English names (such as Loveday) have survived. Cornish was a Celtic language, like Welsh, and Cornwall held out against the Anglo-saxons. Most Cornish speakers, however, had adopted Norman names by the 12th century (William, Ralph, Richard, and so on), although they tended to use dialect versions (Wella, Rawe, Hicca). Some names with Irish, Welsh, and Saxon origins were adopted or adopted as well as a few Norman ones. These names cover the medieval and later periods. The Cornish were using inheritable family names by the 14th century, most often from place-names, but also from the other Male Personal Names sorts of byname, including patronymics using the father’s name with an apostrophe-s and using a diminutive of the father’s name: ‘-oc’ or ‘-ok’ in old Cornish, ‘-sek’ later. For instance, in the past Ruan’s daughter might have been known as Jenifer Ruan’s, Jenifer Ruanok, or Jenifer Ruansek. Pronunciation Cornish can be pronounced as if the words were English, for the most part. The /s/ is usually pronounced /z/, and can be changed to it. Often /k/ and /c/ at the end of names are interchangeable. The /gh/ is a hard /h/, /ew/ sounds like /oo/, and /y/ can sound like /ih/, /ee/, or /uh/ depending on the name. Some examples: ‘Austell’ is pronounced Ah-stel, ‘Myghal’ is muh-Hayl, ‘Glewas’ is Gloo-ahs, ‘Cordelia’ is kohr-Deel-yah, ‘Tamsyn’ is Tam-zuhn, ‘Wylmet’ is Wil-met, ‘Ryol’ is Ree-ol, ‘Rozenwyn’ is roh-Zen-win, and ‘Cador’ is Kahd-ohr. Common: Daveth, Digory, Gerens, Jacca, Jory, Margh, Myghal, Perran, Tristan, Wella Standard: Alan, Alun, Arthur, Arthyen, Austell, Benesek, Blyth, Branek, Branwalather, Brengy, Breoc, Bryok, Budic, Buthek, Cadan, Cador, Cadreth, Caradoc, Carasek, Carrow, Caswyn, Cleder, Clemow, Clesek, Colan, Colyn, Corentyn, Cornelly, Costentyn, Costetyn, Crantok, Credan, Daveth, Davy, Denzel, Digory, Docco, Doniert, Donyerth, Durngarth, Elid, Enoder, Ervan, Feoc, Gawen, Gerens, Gerent, Germoc, Germoe, Glewas, Goran, Gorlas, Goron, Gorthelyk, Gourgy, Gwinear, Gwynek, Herygh, Hicca, Howel, Hydroc, Iahan, Ives, Jacca, Jago, Jamma, Jory, Jowan, Kaveran, Kenal, Kenan, Kenver, Kenwyn, Keresyk, Kevern, Kitto, Ludwan, Maban, Madern, Malgen, Manuel, Margh, Marrek, Massen, Mawgan, Maylwen, Mellyan, Melor, Melyn, Meriasek, Merryn, Milyan, Myghal, Nadelek, Nechtan, Nerth, Neythen, Nicca, Padern, Pasco, Pawly, Peder, Pencast, Peran, Perran, Petroc, Petrok, Piran, Rewan, Ruan, Rumon, Ryel, Samson, Seleven, Selyf, Sennen, Silyen, Sithny, Sythyn, Talan, Talek, Tomas, Trevedic, Tristan, Trystan, Udy, Uther, Uthno, Vark, Vyvyan, Welet, Wella, Weryn, Wethinoc, Withell, Worrec, Yestin, Ythel Female Personal Names Common: Demelza, Eseld, Jenifer, Kerensa, Lowenna, Morwenna, Rosen, Tamsyn, Tryfena, Wenna Standard: Ailla, Angelet, Arranz, Athwenna, Banallan, Barenwyn, Berlewen, Bersaba, Beryan, Blejan, Bryluen, Burien, Caja, Carenza, Ceinwen, Chesten, Columba, Conwenna, Cordelia, Crewenna, Cryda, Delen, Demelza, Derowen, Derwa, Dywana, Ebrel, Elestren, Elowen, Endelienta, Endelyon, Eseld, Eselt, Esyld, Eva, Ewa, Ewe, Glanna, Gweniver, Gwennol, Hedra, Jenifer, Jenifry, Jenna, Jowanet, Kayna, Kelynen, Kensa, Kerensa, Kerenza, Keresyk, Kerra, Kew, Ladoca, Loveday, Lowenek, Lowenna, Mabyn, Manacca, Mariot, Marya, Melior, Meliora, Mellear, Melloney, Mellyn, Melwyn, Melyar, Melyonen, Melyor, Meraud, Merouda, Metheven, Morenwyn, Morgelyn, Morveren, Morvoren, Morwen, Morwenna, Morwennol, Morwetha, Neraud, Nessa, Newlyn, Newlyna, Nonna, Rosen, Rozen, Rozenwyn, Senara, Sevi, Sowena, Steren, Talwyn, Tamara, Tamsyn, Tecca, Tegen, Tregereth, Tressa, Trevenna, Tryfena, Vorva, Weneppa, Wenn, Wenna, Wylmet, Ygerna, Zethar Family Names Common: Berriman, Care, Curnow, Noall, Pearce, Penrose, Quick, Rowe, Trevorrow, Vial Standard: Andrewartha, Angrave, Annear, Anning, Bain, Baragwanath, Beckerleg, Bedell, Bennetto, Bennetts, Berriman, Berryman, Bescoby, Bice, Biddick, Binney, Blamey, Boase, Boden, Bolitho, Bonython, Borlase, Bosanko, Bosanquet, Bray, Briddon, Bryant, Carbines, Cardell, Care, Carlyon, Carnell, Carveth, Causley, Chegwidden, Chenhalls, Chenoweth, Clemow, Clemson, Climo, Clymo, Coad, Cocking, Colenso, Colley, Congdon, Corin, Couch, Cowling, Craddick, Crago, Craze, Crowle, Cundy, Curnow, Daniel, Deveril, Dobell, Dowling, Eade, Edwards, Ellis, Endean, Eva, Faull, Frayne, Freeman, Freethy, Galtey, Geach, Geake, Godden, Gole, Goss, Gribbin, Gynn, Hain, Haines, Hambly, Hannaford, Hannah, Harris, Hayne, Hendra, Hobby, Hocking, Hodge, Hollow, Hosking, Hoskins, Inch, Isbell, Ivey, James, Jasper, Jelbart, Jennings, Jewell, Johns, Joliffe, Jolly, Keast, Keen, Keigwin, Kempthorne, Kersey, Kestle, Kinver, Kittow, Lander, Landreth, Lanyon, Lawry, Lean, Leggo, Liddicoat, Lowry, Maddaford, Maddern, Magor, Martin, Mayne, Menadue, Mitchell, Moon, Morcom, Murrish, Nancarrow, Nankervis, Nankivel, Newth, Nicholls, Ninnis, Noall, Noon, Oates, Odgers, Old, Olver, Opie, Otes, Palk, Pascoe, Pawley, Paynter, Pearce, Pellew, Penberthy, Pender, Pengelly, Penhaligon, Penhallow, Penn, Penrose, Pentreath, Penwarden, Perkin, Perrin, Peters, Pethick, Phillips, Poldark, Polmear, Praed, Prowse, Quick, Quintrell, Raddall, Restorick, Retallack, Richards, Rodda, Rogers, Rose, Roseveare, Rosewall, Rosewarne, Roskelly, Roskilly, Rouncefield, Rowe, Rowse, Rule, Rundle, Ryall, Sanders, Scobel, Skewes, Smith, Snell, Spargo, Stevens, Tamblyn, Tangye, Tanner, Teague, Terrill, Thomas, Tinney, Tonkin, Trebilcock, Tredinnick, Trefusis, Tregear, Tregellas, Tregelles, Tregenza, Tregloan, Treglown, Tregoning, Tregonning, Trelawney, Treleavin, Treloar, Tremain, Tremayne, Trembath, Tremelling, Trenance, Trerice, Treseder, Tresillian, Trestrail, Trethew, Trethewey, Trethowan, Trevain, Trevaskis, Trevellick, Trevelyan, Treverton, Trevethan, Trevithick, Trevorrow, Trewarthen, Treweeke, Trewhella, Trewin, Trezona, Trounson, Trudgen, Truscott, Tyack, Uren, Veal, Vear, Vellenoweth, Venton, Verran, Vial, Vosper, Voss, Warne, Warren, Wearne, White, Wickett, Williams, Windle, Withiel, Yelland, Yourand English Typically, the pattern is to have one or more personal names (two is most common) followed by a family name, for example, Adam Mark Smith. Family names can be used as personal names, especially in America, if you need more personal names. The current trend is for variety in personal names, and new names can be added at will, especially for girls. Personal names can be taken from another language or time, from fiction, or simply created from whole cloth, and almost anything can be a family name: the lists here are but tiny samples! Honorifics are uncommon in the English-speaking world these days. Informality is in vogue to the extent that some children may address parents or even other adults by their given names. This was disrespectful a generation ago, rude two generations ago, and unheard over the previous five centuries. If you are running a campaign set in past centuries, people would usually be addressed by their surnames or a term of address or both. Sir or Madam was the form of address in polite society from the 15th to 19th centuries. Current terms of address include Mr (mister) for a man, Miss for an unmarried woman, and Mrs (missiz) for a married one; some women prefer a third term of recent coining and indeterminate marital status, Ms (miz). A century ago, women took their husband’s names on marriage, so if Adam Smith and Betty Jones married, the latter would have been known as Mrs Adam Smith. It is still usual for a wife to take her husband’s surname, so now Betty would most likely become Mrs Betty Smith. American women often keep their maiden names as middle names after marriage, so Betty, were she American, might become Mrs Betty Jones Smith. Some more recent developments include a woman retaining her maiden name after marriage, so Betty could instead be Mrs or Ms Betty Jones; and a couple hyphenating their surnames, so we would have Adam and Betty Smith-Jones (this has obvious limitations after a generation or two). Pronunciation can manage a few accents, it’s a good way to distinguish between nations or regions in your campaign world, even if youIt is assumed you know how to pronounce English! There is a only ever use English names. The personal names here includewide variety of accents and dialects across Anglophone countries typical names from America,Australia, and other English-around the world, of course, so there are many hundreds of speaking countries, not just those from England.possible pronounciations beyond standard received BBC. If you Male Personal Names Common: Adam, Andrew, Brian, Christopher, Daniel, Darren, David, Eric, James, Jeffery, John, Mark, Matthew, Michael, Paul, Richard, Robert, Scott, Stephen, William Standard: Adam, Adrian, Alan, Alastair, Albert, Alec, Alex, Alexander, Alfie, Alfred, Alistair, Ambrose, Andrew, Anthony, Antony, Arnold, Arthur, Ashley, Austin, Barnabas, Barnaby, Barry, Basil, Ben, Benedict, Benjamin, Bernard, Bert, Bertie, Bertram, Bill, Bob, Boyd, Brad, Bradley, Brandon, Brendan, Brent, Bret, Brian, Bruce, Byron, Cameron, Carl, Cecil, Chad, Charles, Christian, Christopher, Clarence, Clark, Cliff, Clifford, Clive, Cody, Colin, Conrad, Cornelius, Craig, Dale, Daley, Damian, Damien, Damon, Dan, Daniel, Danny, Darren, Darryl, David, Dean, Dennis, Derek, Deric, Desmond, Dirk, Dominic, Donald, Douglas, Duane, Dudley, Duncan, Dustin, Edgar, Edmond, Edmund, Edward, Edwin, Eliot, Elroy, Elvis, Eric, Ernest, Eugene, Felix, Francis, Frank, Fred, Freddie, Frederick, Gareth, Gary, Gavin, Geoffrey, George, Gerald, Gerard, Gerold, Gilbert, Giles, Glen, Godfrey, Gordon, Graham, Grant, Gregg, Gregory, Guy, Harold, Harry, Harvey, Hayden, Hector, Henry, Herbert, Howard, Hubert, Hugh, Ian, Ivan, Ivor, Jack, Jacob, Jake, James, Jamie, Jared, Jason, Jeff, Jeffrey, Jeremy, Jerry, Jesse, Joel, John, Jonathan, Jordan, Joseph, Joshua, Julian, Justin, Kane, Karl, Keith, Kelvin, Ken, Kenneth, Kevin, Kieran, Kirk, Kurt, Kyle, Lance, Laurence, Larry, Lee, Leighton, Leo, Leon, Leonard, Leroy, Leslie, Lewis, Liam, Lionel, Lloyd, Louis, Luke, Malcolm, Marcus, Mark, Martin, Marty, Matt, Matthew, Maurice, Max, Maximilian, Maxwell, Melvin, Michael, Miles, Mitchell, Nathan, Nathaniel, Neil, Nevil, Neville, Niall, Nicholas, Nick, Nigel, Noël, Norman, Oliver, Oscar, Owen, Pat, Patrick, Paul, Percival, Percy, Perry, Peter, Philip, Piers, Ralph, Randal, Randy, Ray, Raymond, Reginald, Reuben, Rex, Richard, Rickie, Robert, Robin, Roderick, Rodney, Roger, Roland, Ronald, Rory, Ross, Roy, Royston, Rupert, Russell, Ryan, Sam, Samuel, Scott, Sean, Sebastian, Shane, Shaun, Sidney, Simon, Spencer, Stanley, Stephen, Steve, Steven, Stewart, Stuart, Terence, Terry, Theodore, Thomas, Timothy, Toby, Todd, Tony, Travis, Trevor, Troy, Tyler, Vaughan, Vernon, Victor, Vincent, Wal, Walter, Warren, Wayne, Wesley, Wilfred, William, Winston, Zachary Other: Aaron, Abraham, Albern, Aldous, Algernon, Allard, Aloysius, Alvin, Art, Artie, Aubrey, Audie, Augustus, Bard, Bart, Bartholomew, Blaine, Bruno, Buck, Cain, Calvin, Cedric, Chance, Corin, Cyril, Dale, Delbert, Delroy, Digory, Dion, Duane, Dylan, Earl, Egbert, Elmer, Elmo, Elwood, Emmet, Errol, Erwin, Flint, Gabriel, Garth, Gene, Griff, Harlan, Hiram, Homer, Horatio, Huey, Irving, Isaac, Jasper, Jay, Julius, Kip, Lester, Marshall, Marvin, Matty, Myron, Nate, Natty, Niles, Octavius, Ogden, Orion, Orson, Osric, Oswald, Otis, Peregrine, Perry, Red, Rennie, Rufus, Russ, Rusty, Seth, Skip, Solomon, Sonny, Tadd, Thane, Ted, Thorn, Tully, Ulrich, Valentine, Vance, Virgil, Wade, Ward, Wilbur, Willis, Wolf Female Personal Names Common: Angela, Catherine, Christine, Claire, Emma, Helen, Jennifer, Joanne, Karen, Kelly, Kimberly, Lisa, Michelle, Nicola, Pamela, Rachel, Rebecca, Sarah, Tracy, Victoria Standard: Abbey, Abigail, Ada, Adelaide, Adele, Adriana, Adrienne, Agnes, Aimée, Alexandra, Alexia, Alexis, Alice, Alicia, Alison, Alissa, Alyssa, Amanda, Amber, Amelia, Amy, Anastasia, Andrea, Angela, Anika, Anita, Ann, Ann-Marie, Anna, Annabel, Anne, Annette, Annice, April, Asleigh, Audrey, Autumn, Avril, Barbara, Barbi, Beatrice, Beatrix, Becky, Belinda, Bernadette, Bernie, Beryl, Beth, Bethany, Betsy, Betty, Beverley, Bianca, Bobbie, Bonnie, Brenda, Bridget, Brittany, Brook, Bryony, Caitlin, Camilla, Candace, Candice, Candy, Cara, Carie, Carina, Carissa, Carla, Carly, Carmen, Carol, Caroline, Carolyn, Cassandra, Cassie, Catherine, Celia, Ceri, Chantal, Chantelle, Charlene, Charlotte, Charmaine, Chelsea, Chérie, Cherry, Cheryl, Chloë, Christa, Christina, Christine, Christy, Cindy, Claire, Claudia, Colette, Colleen, Constance, Connie, Coral, Corey, Corrine, Corrinna, Courtney, Crystal, Cynthia, Daisy, Daniella, Danielle, Daphne, Davina, Davinia, Dawn, Deanna, Debbie, Deborah, Debra, Denise, Desirée, Diana, Diane, Dolores, Dominique, Donna, Doris, Dorothy, Edith, Edwina, Elaine, Eleanor, Elena, Elizabeth, Ellen, Eloise, Elsie, Emily, Emma, Erica, Erin, Estelle, Esther, Ethel, Eva, Eve, Evelyn, Fay, Felicia, Felice, Felicity, Fern, Fiona, Fleur, Flora, Florence, Fran, Frances, Francesca, Gabriella, Gabrielle, Gail, Gaye, Gaynor, Gemma, Georgette, Georgia, Georgina, Georgine, Geraldine, Geri, Gillian, Gina, Gladys, Glenda, Gloria, Grace, Hannah, Harriet, Hayley, Hazel, Heather, Heidi, Helen, Helena, Henrietta, Hilary, Hilda, Holly, Hope, Imogen, India, Ingrid, Irene, Iris, Isabel, Isabella, Isobel, Ivy, Jackie, Jacqueline, Jade, Jaime, Jane, Janet, Janice, Janine, Jasmine, Jean, Jeanette, Jenna, Jennifer, Jenny, Jessica, Jill, Joan, Joanna, Joanne, Jocelyn, Jodie, Josephine, Josie, Joy, Joyce, Judith, Judy, Julia, Julie, Juliet, June, Justine, Karen, Karla, Kate, Katharine, Kathleen, Kathryn, Katrina, Katy, Kay, Keeley, Kelly, Kelsey, Kerry, Kim, Kimberley, Kirsten, Kirsty, Kylie, Lacey, Lana, Lara, Laura, Laurel, Lauren, Leah, Leanne, Leigh, Leila, Lena, Leona, Leonie, Lesley, Lila, Lilian, Lily, Linda, Lindsay, Lindsey, Linsay, Linsey, Lisa, Liza, Lois, Lori, Lorna, Lorraine, Louisa, Louise, Lucille, Lucinda, Lucy, Lydia, Lynette, Lynne, Mabel, Maddy, Madeleine, Madeline, Maisie, Mandy, Marcia, Margaret, Margot, Marguerite, Maria, Marian, Marianne, Marie, Marilyn, Marina, Marion, Marlene, Marsha, Martha, Martina, Martine, Mary, Matilda, Maud, Maureen, Mavis, Maxine, May, Megan, Melanie, Melinda, Melissa, Melody, Meredith, Michaela, Michelle, Mildred, Miranda, Miriam, Moira, Molly, Monica, Muriel, Nadia, Nadine, Nancy, Naomi, Natalie, Natasha, Nicky, Nicola, Nicole, Nina, Nora, Norma, Olga, Olive, Olivia, Ona, Paige, Pam, Pamela, Pat, Patricia, Patsy, Paula, Paulette, Pauline, Pearl, Peggy, Penelope, Penny, Philippa, Phoebe, Phyllis, Polly, Poppy, Priscilla, Rachael, Rachel, Rebecca, Regina, Renée, Rita, Roberta, Robyn, Rochelle, Rosalie, Rosalind, Rosaline, Rosanne, Rose, Rosemary, Rosie, Roxana, Roxanne, Ruby, Ruth, Sabrina, Sadie, Sally, Samantha, Sandra, Sandy, Sarah, Selina, Serena, Shannon, Sharlene, Sharon, Sheena, Shelley, Sheri, Sheryl, Shirley, Sian, Simone, Siobhan, Sonia, Stacey, Stella, Stephanie, Susan, Susannah, Suzanne, Sylvia, Tamara, Tammy, Tamsin, Tania, Tara, Terri, Tess, Tessa, Thelma, Theresa, Tiffany, Tina, Toni, Tonia, Tracey, Trudy, Ursula, Valerie, Vanessa, Vera, Verity, Veronica, Vicky, Victoria, Violet, Virginia, Vivian, Vivienne, Wendy, Winifred, Yasmin, Yvette, Yvonne, Zara, Zoë Other: Adrea, Agatha, Annis, Alana, Alberta, Allegra, Althea, Amabel, Amaryllis, Ambrosia, Amethyst, Angelica, Ariel, Aurora, Blanche, Bliss, Blossom, Blythe, Cecilia, Celandine, Celeste, Celestine, Charity, Clara, Clarissa, Clarice, Cora, Croisella, Cybil, Darleen, Dee, Della, Dora, Edna, Elmira, Ertha, Eunice, Evangeline, Faith, Freda, Gertrude, Gilda, Ginger, Gwen, Gwendolyn, Hedy, Ida, Irma, Jessamine, Lark, Lavinia, Loretta, Lee, Leontine, Liana, Marcella, Mercedes, Mercy, Modesty, Myrette, Myrna, Myrtle, Noëlle, Portia, Prudence, Ramona, Renata, Rowena, Sabina, Sabine, Sibyl, Storm, Stormy, Sunny, Tabitha, Tallulah, Tansy, Theodora, Una, Velda, Venetia, Venus, Vesper, Vida, Wanda, Winona, Wynne, Yolanda, Zelda Family Names Common: Brown, Davies, Edwards, Evans, Green, Hall, Hughes, Johnson, Jones, Roberts, Robinson, Smith, Taylor, Thomas, Thompson, Walker, White, Williams, Wilson, Wright Standard: A’court, Abbott, Abington, Able, Ablett, Abney, Acheson, Ackerly, Ackland, Adair, Adam, Adams, Adamson, Adcock, Addington, Addison, Addy, Adeane, Adkins, Adney, Agate, Aggett, Agnew, Agutter, Aiken, Airey, Aitken, Aitkens, Albert, Alcock, Alden, Alderman, Alderson, Aldiss, Aldous, Aldren, Aldridge, Aldwin, Alexander, Alexander, Alford, Allan, Allanson, Allbright, Allen, Allwright, Almer, Alston, Alwin, Ambler, Amery, Ames, Amis, Anderson, Andrews, Annett, Annis, Annison, Appleby, Applegate, Appleton, Applin, Archbell, Archer, Archibald, Argent, Arkwright, Arlott, Arment, Armer, Armitage, Armour, Armstrong, Arnell, Arnett, Arnold, Arnott, Arram, Arrowsmith, Arthur, Ashmead, Ashton, Ashwin, Atherton, Atkin, Atkins, Atkinson, Attenborough, Atthill, Attley, Attwell, Attwick, Attwood, Atwater, Auden, Austen, Aveling, Averill, Avis, Ayler, Aylesworth, Aylward, Aymes, Babbage, Babbitt, Babcock, Bacchus, Bachelor, Backer, Bacon, Bagley, Bail, Bailey, Baker, Baldwin, Ball, Ballard, Balman, Balmer, Banfield, Banister, Banker, Banks, Bannerman, Barber, Bardell, Barker, Barlow, Barnard, Barnes, Barnett, Baron, Barrett, Barrow, Barry, Barsby, Bartholomew, Bartlett, Barton, Bateman, Bates, Bateson, Batty, Bawden, Baxter, Bayliss, Baynes, Beamer, Bean, Beard, Beatson, Beattie, Beckett, Beckford, Beckham, Bedloe, Beecham, Beecher, Beeman, Belcher, Belham, Bell, Bellairs, Bellamy, Bellew, Bellmaine, Bencroft, Benedict, Benn, Bennett, Benny, Benson, Bentham, Bentley, Benton, Beresford, Bernard, Berryman, Bertram, Bessemer, Bethell, Bevan, Beverly, Bewes, Bewick, Bibbey, Biggs, Billings, Billington, Bing, Birch, Bird, Birdwood, Birkett, Birrel, Bishop, Bisset, Bithell, Black, Blackburn, Blackett, Blackwood, Blake, Blakely, Blanchard, Bland, Blandford, Bleakman, Blessed, Bligh, Bliss, Blondell, Blood, Bloom, Bloomer, Bloomfield, Blundell, Blunden, Blunt, Blythe, Boar, Boatswain, Boden, Bodkin, Bodley, Bolan, Bold, Bolton, Bonamy, Bond, Bone, Bonington, Bonner, Booker, Boole, Boon, Boorman, Boosey, Boote, Booth, Bootham, Borrow, Bosley, Botham, Boucher, Boughton, Boulter, Bourne, Bowcott, Bowden, Bowen, Bower, Bowers, Bowie, Bowler, Bowles, Bowman, Bowyer, Boyd, Boydell, Boyle, Bracegirdle, Bracken, Brackenridge, Braddock, Braddon, Bradford, Bradley, Bradshaw, Brady, Bragg, Braithwaite, Branch, Brassey, Braxton, Bray, Brazier, Breakspear, Bream, Brent, Brewer, Brewster, Bridge, Bridges, Bridle, Briggs, Bright, Brightmore, Brisbane, Britten, Broad, Broadhead, Brock, Broderick, Brooke, Brookes, Brookner, Brooks, Broom, Broughton, Brown, Browning, Bruce, Brunton, Bryan, Bryant, Buck, Buckler, Buckley, Bull, Bullock, Bulmer, Bunting, Bunyan, Burchard, Burdett, Burgess, Burke, Burley, Burney, Burns, Burr, Burrage, Burrell, Burroughs, Burrows, Burton, Busby, Bushell, Butcher, Butler, Butlin, Butterworth, Button, Buxton, Byers, Byng, Byrd, Byrne, Bywater, Bywood, Callcott, Calverd, Calverly, Camp, Campbell, Canby, Cann, Cannard, Cannell, Cantwell, Capell, Carder, Carey, Carlyle, Carman, Carpenter, Carrington, Carroll, Carter, Cartwright, Carver, Case, Cash, Castle, Catchpole, Cater, Catt, Cattell, Cave, Chadwick, Chalk, Chalker, Challenger, Chalmers, Chamberlain, Chambers, Chancellor, Chandler, Chant, Chaplin, Chapman, Chappel, Charlton, Chase, Chatfield, Chaucer, Cheeseman, Cheesewright, Cheetham, Cheever, Cheney, Cherry, Chesney, Chester, Chesterton, Chinn, Chisholm, Christian, Christie, Christopher, Chudley, Chumley, Church, Churchfield, Clapham, Clare, Clarges, Claridge, Claris, Clark, Clarke, Claxton, Clayton, Cleaver, Clegg, Cleghorn, Clemens, Clement, Clempson, Clerk, Clothier, Coates, Cobbald, Coburn, Coe, Coghill, Cole, Coleman, Coles, Collett, Colley, Collier, Collings, Collins, Collinson, Comfort, Coningsby, Connant, Conner, Constable, Constance, Cook, Cooke, Cooper, Coot, Cope, Corden, Cordwainer, Corker, Corrick, Cory, Costner, Cotter, Cotterill, Cotton, Couch, Coulson, Courage, Court, Courtauld, Courtney, Cousins, Cowling, Cowper, Cox, Crabbe, Craig, Craik, Crane, Crawford, Crewe, Cribb, Crisp, Crocker, Cropper, Cross, Crowther, Crozier, Cruickshank, Crump, Cryer, Culbert, Culpepper, Cunningham, Curtin, Curtis, Curwood, Cuthbertson, Cutler, Cutter, Cutts, Dakins, Dalby, Dale, Dales, Dalton, Daltrey, Daly, Damerell, Dampier, Damson, Dance, Dandy, Danforth, Daniels, Danson, Dark, Darling, Darts, Darwin, Dash, Dashwood, Daubeny, Davey, David, Davidson, Davies, Davis, Davison, Davitt, Daw, Dawes, Dawkins, Dawson, Day, Daykin, Deacon, Dean, Deare, Debney, Delafield, Delbridge, Dempster, Denby, Denham, Dennis, Dennison, Denny, Dent, Dewdney, Dexter, Dickens, Dickinson, Dickson, Diver, Dixon, Dobbyn, Dobell, Dobson, Dodd, Dodge, Dodgson, Dodson, Doe, Dolittle, Donald, Donaldson, Dorr, Dorrit, Doughty, Dove, Dowson, Doyle, Drake, Draper, Dray, Drewitt, Drinkall, Drinkwater, Driver, Drury, Duckworth, Duke, Duncan, Dunn, Durand, Durrant, Dutton, Dwight, Dybell, Dyer, Dykes, Dyson, Eade, Eadie, Earle, Easley, East, Eastlake, Eastman, Easton, Ebbetts, Eddington, Eddis, Eddison, Eden, Edgar, Edison, Edmond, Edmondson, Edmunds, Edwards, Eggleston, Eglin, Elder, Elgar, Ellicott, Ellin, Elliott, Ellis, Ellison, Ellsworth, Ellwood, Elwin, Ely, Emerson, Emmett, Enfield, English, Erwin, Etheridge, Eustace, Evans, Evelyn, Ewer, Faber, Fairbrother, Fairchild, Fairfax, Fairfield, Fairley, Falcon, Falconer, Faramond, Farmer, Farr, Farrand, Farrar, Farrier, Farthing, Faulkner, Fawkes, Fearman, Feather, Fell, Fellows, Fender, Fennell, Fiddler, Fielder, Fielding, Filkins, Finch, Fine, Fisher, Fiske, Fitch, Fitchett, Fitzgerald, Flashman, Fleming, Flesher, Fletcher, Flinter, Flower, Flynn, Folkes, Follett, Foot, Footman, Ford, Forder, Foreman, Forest, Forester, Forster, Fortnam, Foster, Fothergill, Fournier, Fowler, Fox, Francis, Franklin, Franks, Fraser, Free, Freelove, Freeman, French, Frere, Frewer, Friend, Frobisher, Frost, Froude, Fry, Fulk, Fuller, Furber, Gadd, Gaine, Gaisford, Galpin, Galton, Gamble, Gambling, Gamlin, Gammell, Gard, Gardiner, Gardner, Garland, Garner, Garnett, Garrett, Garthwaite, Garvice, Gatehouse, Gates, Gatewood, Gaye, Gearing, Gee, Gentle, Geoffreys, George, Gerard, Germain, German, Gibb, Gibbon, Gibbons, Gibbs, Gibson, Gilbert, Gilbertson, Giles, Gilham, Gill, Gillette, Gilliam, Gilman, Gilpin, Gilroy, Gilson, Gladman, Glaisher, Glass, Glazebrook, Glover, Godbert, Goddard, Godding, Godfrey, Godwin, Gold, Golden, Goldsmith, Goldwin, Golightly, Golland, Good, Goodbody, Goodenough, Goodfellow, Goodheart, Goodyear, Goossens, Gordon, Gorton, Gosling, Gosse, Gotobed, Gough, Gould, Gower, Gowers, Graham, Grainger, Grand, Grant, Gray, Grayson, Grealey, Greaves, Green, Greenfield, Greenwood, Greer, Greggs, Gregson, Grenfell, Gresham, Grey, Grice, Grier, Grierson, Grieve, Griffin, Griffiths, Grigson, Groom, Gross, Grossmith, Grosvenor, Groves, Guest, Guy, Hacker, Haddon, Haden, Hake, Halding, Hale, Hall, Halliwell, Hallmark, Hambley, Hamblin, Hamilton, Hamlyn, Hammett, Hammond, Hampden, Hanaford, Hancock, Hand, Hankin, Hannah, Hansard, Hansford, Hanson, Hapgood, Harding, Hardwick, Hardy, Hare, Hargreaves, Harland, Harling, Harmon, Harmsworth, Harper, Harriman, Harris, Harrison, Hart, Hartley, Harveson, Harvey, Hastings, Hatcher, Hatton, Hawes, Hawke, Hawkins, Haworth, Hayes, Haynes, Hayward, Hazlitt, Headlam, Heath, Heathcote, Heaton, Henderson, Hendry, Henty, Hepworth, Herbert, Herd, Heriot, Herman, Heseltine, Hewer, Hewitt, Hewlett, Hicks, Hickson, Higgins, Higgs, Hill, Hilton, Hine, Hinton, Hitch, Hitchcock, Hitchens, Hoare, Hobart, Hobbs, Hobson, Hodges, Hodgkiss, Hodgson, Hogg, Holden, Holland, Hollier, Hollis, Holloway, Holman, Holmes, Holt, Holyoake, Hookham, Hooper, Hope, Hopkins, Hopkinson, Hopwood, Hornblower, Horner, Horsley, Horton, Hotchkins, Hotchkiss, Hough, Houghton, Howard, Howarth, Howell, Howells, Howes, Howitt, Hubbert, Hudd, Hudson, Huggett, Huggins, Hughes, Humphries, Hunt, Hunter, Huntingdon, Hurd, Hurst, Husband, Hussey, Hutchinson, Hutchison, Hyde, Hyndman, Ibbetson, Idle, Inge, Inglefield, Inglesby, Ingram, Inman, Inswell, Iremonger, Isaacson, Ives, Jacklin, Jacks, Jackson, Jacobi, Jacobs, Jaggard, Jagger, Jakes, James, Jameson, Janes, Jardine, Jarman, Jarrett, Jarrold, Jarvie, Jarvis, Jaspers, Jaye, Jeeves, Jeffcote, Jefferies, Jefferson, Jeffries, Jeffs, Jenkins, Jenkinson, Jenks, Jenner, Jennett, Jennings, Jeppson, Jermyn, Jerrold, Jervis, Jessop, Jewett, Jocelyn, Johns, Johnson, Johnston, Joiner, Jones, Jordan, Josephs, Josephson, Jowett, Joyce, Judd, Judge, Judson, Julian, Kay, Keats, Keen, Keene, Kellogg, Kember, Kemp, Kendrick, Kennard, Kent, Kew, King, Kingsbury, Kingsford, Kinsey, Kipps, Kirby, Kirk, Kitteridge, Kitts, Knight, Knowles, Labbett, Lake, Lakeman, Lamb, Lambert, Lambrick, Lancer, Landor, Lane, Langdon, Langley, Lapping, Larkin, Larraby, Latham, Lathrop, Latimer, Lavender, Law, Lawless, Lawrence, Lawrenson, Lawrie, Lawson, Lea, Leach, Leadbeater, Lean, Leather, Leavey, Leavins, Lebeau, Lee, Lees, Leigh, Leland, Leonard, Leopard, Lethbridge, Letson, Letts, Letty, Leverick, Leveridge, Levin, Lewes, Lewin, Lewis, Lewison, Libby, Liddel, Light, Lightbody, Lilleyman, Lillywhite, Linton, Lipton, Lister, Lithman, Little, Littlejohn, Livesay, Lloyd, Loader, Locke, Lockett, Lockhart, Locksmith, Lockyer, Long, Longacre, Longbourne, Longfellow, Lord, Lorimer, Louis, Love, Loveday, Lovejoy, Lovelace, Lovell, Lovitt, Low, Lowell, Lowes, Lowry, Lucas, Luckey, Lucy, Ludford, Ludlow, Luke, Lunn, Luther, Luttrell, Lutwidge, Lynch, Lynd, Lynn, Lyon, Lyons, Lytton, Mabley, Mabson, Macey, Machin, Macy, Maddox, Madgett, Madison, Magdalen, Maggs, Magill, Magson, Maiden, Maidman, Makepeace, Makins, Makinson, Malaby, Malkin, Mallard, Malleson, Mallett, Mallinson, Mallory, Malter, Manby, Manley, Mannering, Manning, Mansel, Marbler, Marchant, Margerison, Mariner, Marion, Maris, Marison, Marker, Markham, Marks, Marler, Marlow, Marmion, Marner, Marriot, Marryat, Marsden, Marshall, Marsh, Marshbanks, Marshman, Martell, Martens, Martin, Martinson, Martlet, Martyr, Maryat, Mason, Massey, Massinger, Masters, Mather, Matheson, Matterson, Matthews, Matthewson, Maudling, Maudson, Mault, Mawson, May, Maybank, Maycock, Mayer, Mayhew, Maykin, Mead, Meadows, Meager, Meakin, Meares, Medhurst, Meek, Meggeson, Meiklejohn, Melk, Mellor, Mercer, Merchant, Mercy, Merivale, Merrell, Merrill, Merriman, Merrison, Merritt, Merry, Merryweather, Messenger, Metcalfe, Meynell, Michaels, Michaelson, Michell, Michison, Middleton, Milborrow, Milburn, Mildmay, Miles, Miller, Millett, Mills, Milne, Milner, Miskin, Mistry, Mitchell, Mitford, Molesworth, Mollison, Molyneaux, Monger, Monk, Monkhouse, Moorcock, Moorcroft, Moore, Moran, Morgan, Morley, Morrant, Morris, Morrison, Morrisson, Morse, Morson, Morton, Mosely, Moss, Mott, Mottram, Moulson, Moulton, Mower, Moxon, Moyne, Moyse, Much, Muldaur, Mulliner, Munsby, Murphy, Murray, Murrells, Mustard, Myers, Naden, Naismith, Napier, Nash, Nayland, Naylor, Neale, Neame, Neate, Neave, Neck, Needler, Neighbour, Neill, Neilson, Nell, Nelson, New, Newcliff, Newfield, Newman, Newnham, Newsham, Newson, Newton, Nibbs, Nibson, Nicholas, Nicholls, Nichols, Nicholson, Nicks, Nickson, Nicol, Nightingale, Niles, Nixon, Noel, Norman, Normanby, Norris, North, Norton, Norvell, Nott, Nowell, Noy, Noyes, Nunn, Nurse, Nuttal, Oade, Oakeshott, Oakley, Oastler, Olcott, Old, Oliver, Oliverson, Ordway, Orgill, Orrick, Osborne, Osbourne, Osgood, Ostler, Ostridge, Otter, Outlaw, Outram, Outridge, Overton, Owen, Owens, Oxley, Oxnard, Oyler, Packer, Pagan, Paget, Paige, Painter, Pakeman, Palgrave, Pallister, Palmer, Panther, Pardey, Parfett, Pargeter, Parker, Parkes, Parkin, Parkinson, Parkman, Parks, Parmenter, Parnel, Parr, Parrinder, Parritt, Parry, Parson, Parsons, Partridge, Pascal, Pascoe, Passmore, Pate, Paterson, Patrick, Patrickson, Patten, Patterson, Paul, Paulson, Pauncefort, Paxton, Payne, Paynel, Peabody, Peacock, Peake, Peale, Pear, Pearce, Pearl, Pearman, Pearse, Pearson, Peart, Peartree, Pease, Peate, Peck, Peel, Peers, Pegson, Pelham, Peller, Pellew, Pemberton, Penman, Penny, Pennyfeather, Pepper, Pepperell, Peregrine, Perkins, Perks, Perrett, Perrier, Perrin, Perry, Peters, Peterson, Pethers, Petrie, Pettifer, Pettigrew, Pettit, Petty, Phelps, Philcox, Philips, Phillipson, Philpot, Philpotts, Phipp, Phipps, Pickering, Pierce, Piers, Pilcher, Pilgrim, Pillinger, Pinchbeck, Pincher, Pinder, Pinker, Pinkney, Pinnock, Piper, Pitman, Plater, Player, Pledger, Plowman, Plowright, Pluckrose, Plum, Plummer, Pocket, Poe, Poindexter, Pollard, Polson, Pond, Poole, Poor, Pope, Popejoy, Popplestone, Porcher, Port, Porter, Postle, Potkin, Pottell, Potter, Pottinger, Potts, Poulter, Pound, Povey, Powdrill, Powell, Power, Powles, Pratt, Prebble, Preece, Preston, Pretty, Prettyman, Price, Pride, Priest, Prime, Prince, Prior, Pritchard, Pritchett, Probert, Procter, Proffitt, Proude, Provost, Prowse, Prudhom, Pullan, Pumphrey, Punter, Purcell, Purchase, Purefoy, Purnell, Purser, Purvis, Puscat, Pusey, Pyatt, Pye, Quant, Quarles, Quarrell, Quarry, Quarterman, Queen, Quick, Quilter, Quincey, Rabb, Rabbetts, Rabbs, Radford, Rafe, Rains, Ralphs, Ramage, Ramsey, Ramson, Rand, Randal, Randall, Randolph, Rank, Rankin, Ransome, Rastell, Raven, Rawdon, Rawkins, Rawles, Rawlings, Rawlinson, Rawson, Reader, Ready, Redfern, Redman, Redway, Reece, Reed, Rees, Reeve, Reeves, Reginald, Reid, Rennell, Renner, Rennie, Rennison, Renshaw, Restler, Reynolds, Reynoldson, Rhodes, Rhys, Rice, Rich, Richards, Richardson, Richie, Richmore, Rickard, Rickett, Rickson, Rideout, Rider, Ridges, Ridgeway, Rigden, Rigg, Riley, Rimmer, Ringer, Ritchie, Rixon, Robb, Robbins, Roberts, Robertson, Robeson, Robey, Robinson, Robson, Roe, Roebuck, Rogers, Rogerson, Rogett, Roke, Roland, Rollings, Rollins, Rollinson, Rook, Roope, Root, Roper, Roseman, Ross, Roughead, Round, Rouse, Routh, Rover, Rowbotham, Rowe, Rowlands, Rowlandson, Rowley, Rowling, Roy, Royden, Rozier, Rucker, Rudd, Rue, Rumbold, Runciman, Russ, Russell, Rust, Ruth, Rutter, Ryan, Rymer, Sacker, Sadler, Saffron, Sage, Saint, Salmond, Salter, Samson, Samwell, Sanders, Sanderson, Sandison, Sands, Sanford, Sanger, Sansome, Sanson, Sapper, Sargent, Saunders, Saunderson, Savage, Saville, Sawbridge, Sawyer, Sayer, Scaife, Scammell, Scot, Scott, Scrimshaw, Scullion, Seabrook, Seabury, Searle, Seaton, Seavers, Secker, Sedgman, Sedley, Sellers, Sewell, Sexton, Seyler, Shakeshaft, Shakespeare, Shanks, Shapeley, Sharman, Sharp, Sharpe, Sharrock, Shaw, Shears, Shepherd, Sheppard, Sheriff, Sherlock, Sherrard, Sherrington, Sherwin, Shields, Shilling, Shingler, Shipman, Shirley, Short, Shutler, Sibbet, Sibley, Silburn, Silk, Silver, Silversmith, Sim, Simcock, Simcoe, Simcox, Sime, Simkins, Simmins, Simmonds, Simmons, Simms, Simpkins, Simpson, Sims, Sinclair, Singer, Sisley, Sisson, Skeat, Skeggs, Skinner, Sladen, Slater, Sleeman, Slingsby, Sloper, Smale, Small, Smart, Smeaton, Smele, Smith, Smithers, Smollett, Snare, Snell, Sneyd, Snider, Snow, Soane, Solomon, Soper, Sorrell, South, Southcott, Southey, Sowerby, Spalding, Spark, Speake, Speare, Spedding, Speight, Spence, Spencer, Spender, Spendlove, Spicer, Spiers, Spindler, Spooner, Sprackling, Spray, Spring, Springall, Springer, Squiers, Stacey, Stagg, Stainer, Stallard, Stanfast, Stanhope, Stanley, Stannard, Staples, Starke, Starling, Starr, Statham, Stather, Stead, Steadman, Stearman, Stenson, Stephens, Stephenson, Stern, Stevens, Stevenson, Steward, Stewart, Still, Stimpson, Stocker, Stockton, Stoddard, Stokes, Stone, Stopes, Storer, Storey, Stout, Stowe, Stowers, Straight, Strange, Streeter, Stringer, Stripling, Strong, Strongarm, Strutter, Styles, Suckling, Sudden, Summer, Summers, Sumner, Sumpter, Sutherland, Sutler, Sutton, Swann, Swanwick, Sweet, Sweeting, Sweetlove, Sweetman, Swift, Swingler, Swinton, Sykes, Symonds, Tabard, Tailor, Tait, Talbot, Tamble, Tambling, Tamblyn, Tamlyn, Tancock, Tanner, Tapper, Targett, Tasker, Taverner, Taylor, Tazewell, Teacher, Tench, Tennant, Tennyson, Terry, Thatcher, Thaxter, Thomas, Thomason, Thomkins, Thompson, Thomson, Thornton, Thorpe, Threader, Thresher, Thrower, Thrush, Tibbals, Tibbett, Tibbs, Tiller, Tilley, Tillison, Tillman, Tillotson, Timberman, Timblin, Tims, Tinker, Tippett, Tipson, Todd, Todhunter, Toliver, Toller, Tolman, Tombs, Tomkins, Tomlins, Tomlinson, Toms, Toogood, Tooke, Topper, Tough, Towers, Towns, Townsend, Tranter, Trapnell, Tredgett, Trench, Trenchard, Trencher, Trickett, Trigger, Trinder, Trivett, Trott, True, Truelove, Truman, Trumper, Truscott, Try, Tubman, Tucker, Tudor, Tupper, Turk, Turnbull, Turner, Turtle, Turtledove, Twinn, Tyler, Tyson, Ulman, Underhill, Underwood, Unwin, Upton, Usher, Utteridge, Vale, Vantage, Vaughan, Veale, Veil, Vender, Venner, Verity, Verrier, Vickerman, Vickers, Vincent, Vine, Vinson, Vokes, Voller, Wace, Waddington, Wade, Wadleigh, Wadsworth, Waggoner, Waghorn, Wagstaff, Waine, Wainwright, Waite, Wake, Wakefield, Wakeman, Walford, Walker, Wallace, Waller, Wallis, Walsh, Walters, Walton, Ward, Warden, Ware, Warner, Warren, Warrender, Watchman, Waterman, Waters, Watkeys, Watkin, Watkins, Watson, Watt, Watts, Wax, Waxman, Weatherly, Weaver, Webb, Webber, Webster, Welch, Welham, Wellcome, Weller, Welles, Wellman, Wells, West, Westcott, Westlake, Weston, Wharton, Wheatley, Wheeler, Wheelwright, Whistler, Whiston, Whitbread, White, Whitehead, Whitehouse, Whitesmith, Whitgreave, Whitlock, Whitney, Whittaker, Wicken, Wicker, Wickliffe, Wilcock, Wilcox, Wild, Wildblood, Wilder, Wilding, Wildrose, Wilkie, Wilkins, Wilkinson, Wilks, Willard, Willcock, Willcox, Williams, Williamson, Willis, Willmott, Willows, Wills, Wilmer, Wilmot, Wilson, Windle, Winslow, Winter, Winthrop, Wisdom, Wise, Wiseman, Withers, Witherspoon, Witty, Wodehouse, Wolcott, Wold, Wolf, Wollaston, Wolsey, Wood, Woodbury, Woodcock, Woodfall, Woodger, Woodhouse, Woodman, Woodmancy, Woods, Woodward, Wooldridge, Woollcott, Woolridge, Workman, Worth, Wrathall, Wraxhall, Wren, Wright, Wyatt, Wylie, Wyman, Wymer, Wyndham, Yarrell, Yarwood, Yates, Yearling, Yeoman, Young, Youngman, Yule English Aristocratic Names been included nonetheless. Family names include more place-Some names are suggested that might be suitable for the British name derivatives, especially of the Norman French sort, butupper classes: the nobility (with titles), the landed gentry many family names typical of peasant stock turn up, since there(without titles, but possessed of large estates), and the gentry was always a degree of social mobility. There has been some (not quite so well off). Most names of real aristocrats and gentry hyphenation of family names to preserve old lineages, so if youare quite ordinary: by nature they stick to tradition, and a run short, just hyphenate a surname here with a standard one, orhandful of personal names would do half the lords and ladies even two standard ones.down the centuries. Some suitable but less usual ones have A full name should always include at least one middle name, need to assign titles for estates. Please note also that where the perhaps fancier than the initial name, for example, Jane Corinna legend ‘Common’ appears in the lists below, it means frequent, Fairfax. Note that a personage might well be known by title not (er-hem) vulgar. (Lord Byron) rather than name (George Gordon). If so, you will Male Personal Names Common:Alfred, Charles, Edward, George, Henry, James, John, Richard, Robert, William Standard: Abraham, Alan, Albert, Alexander, Alfred, Algernon, Ambrose, Anthony, Arthur, Augustus, Barnabas, Bartholomew, Basil, Benedict, Benjamin, Bernard, Bertram, Charles, Christopher, Clarence, Clive, Constantine, Cornelius, Cuthbert, Cyril, Edmund, Edward, Edwin, Erasmus, Felix, Francis, Frederick, Gabriel, Geoffrey, George, Gerard, Gervase, Gilbert, Guy, Harold, Hector, Henry, Herbert, Horace, Horatio, Hugh, James, Jasper, John, Jonathon, Joseph, Julius, Justin, Lancelot, Leonard, Louis, Marcus, Marmaduke, Matthew, Maurice, Miles, Nathaniel, Nicholas, Nigel, Oliver, Pelham, Percival, Peregrine, Peter, Phineas, Piers, Quentin, Rafe, Ralph, Randolph, Raphael, Reginald, Richard, Robert, Roger, Roland, Rupert, Samuel, Sebastian, Stephen, Sylvester, Theodore, Thomas, Tobias, Tristram, Valentine, Vernon, Walter, Warren, William Female Personal Names Common: Alice, Anne, Catherine, Eleanor, Elizabeth, Emma, Jane, Joanna, Margaret, Mary Standard: Ada, Adela, Adeline, Agatha, Agnes, Alexandra, Alice, Alithea, Amabel, Ambrosia, Amelia, Amice, Anne, Anthea, Antonia, Arabella, Augusta, Avice, Barbara, Beatrice, Blanche, Camilla, Caroline, Cassandra, Catherine, Cecelia, Charlotte, Christine, Cicely, Clara, Claudia, Constance, Corinna, Cynthia, Delia, Desdemona, Diana, Dido, Dorothy, Drusilla, Edith, Eleanor, Elizabeth, Emma, Florence, Frances, Grace, Helen, Henrietta, Isabel, Jane, Jennifer, Joanna, Jocelyn, Laura, Livia, Lucretia, Lydia, Madeline, Margaret, Marjorie, Mary, Matilda, Maud, Meredith, Millicent, Minerva, Miranda, Nicola, Octavia, Oriel, Penelope, Philippa, Phoebe, Phyllis, Priscilla, Prudence, Rachel, Rebecca, Rosamond, Sapphira, Sarah, Sibyl, Sophia, Sophronia, Stephanie, Susan, Sylvia, Theodora, Theodosia, Venetia, Veronica, Victoria, Virginia, Yvonne Family Names Addington, Alanbrooke, Aldersey, Alford, Allenby, Althorp, Amcotts, Arbuthnot, Armytage, Ashcombe, Asher, Asquith, Auden, Bainbridge, Balfour, Bankes, Barrett, Basing, Beale, Beaufort, Beck, Bedford, Belton, Bentham, Beverley, Bicknell, Bingley, Birkbeck, Bladen, Blake, Blois, Bolle, Boothroyd, Bowes, Bradford, Bremner, Breville, Britten, Brodhurst, Brooke, Broughton, Buchan, Burnaby, Bushby, Buxtead, Buxton, Caldwell, Carden, Carrick, Castlemaigne, Caversham, Chamberlain, Chambers, Charrington, Chartres, Chase, Chesham, Chetwynd, Chichester, Clarence, Cleverdon, Clive, Clowes, Cloyne, Cochrane, Congreve, Courage, Courteney, Crawford, Crichton, Cross, Cunningham, Curzon, Dacre, Dale, Dalison, Damerel, Darby, Darcy, Darnford, Dartrey, Dashwood, Davenant, de Blois, de Lisle, de Ville, Delamere, Devereux, Dewey, Dilhorne, Drax, Durham, Dyncott, Eastham, Edwards, Elliott, Englefield, Erskine, Eyre, Fairbairn, Fairfax, Fanthorpe, Farquhar, Farrington, Foulkes, Fiennes, Fitzclarence, Fitzherbert, Fitzroy, Fleming, Follett, Foulkes, Foxlowe, Freeman, Gainsborough, Gale, Gascoigne, Gatacre, Gillett, Girling, Goddard, Godwin, Gosling, Grant, Graves, Greaves, Greenwood, Gresham, Greville, Guy, Haddington, Hall, Hamilton, Hanson, Hardcastle, Harford, Hargreaves, Harmsworth, Harrington, Hart, Harworth, Haughton, Hawley, Hazlehurst, Heathcote, Henry, Herbert, Hindmarsh, Holcombe, Holloway, Holmes, Holroyd, Howard, Howell, Hunt, Huxley, Hyndford, Irving, James, Keen, Kemble, Kingscote, Kingsford, Knight, Labrune, Lainshaw, Lambert, Landon, Langley, Latymer, Lawrence, Le Strange, Leigh, Leith, Liddell, Linsey, Longleat, Loring, Lovell, Lumley, Lyle, Lyon, Malmesbury, Manley, March, Marchmain, Marion, Marles, Marshall, Mellish, Mayne, Mellish, Mellor, Merivale, Middlemas, Mieville, Montague, Montgomery, Montmorency, Morgan, Morse, Mosley, Mostyn, Mowbray, Musgrove, Napier, Naylor, Nelthorpe, Newell, Norbury, Norman, Oaksey, Oliphant, Ormond, Otley, Pagnell, Pavey, Peake, Pelham, Pember, Penney, Pepys, Percy, Petrie, Pitcairn, Pole, Pond, Poyntz, Priestley, Purnell, Purves, Quaife, Quicke, Radcliffe, Rait, Ramsay, Randall, Rathbone, Ravensdale, Reading, Reardon, Redfearn, Remington, Rendlesham, Revesby, Rhodes, Richmond, Riddell, Ridgway, Rivers, Rochester, Rodel, Rooke, Ross, Rowe, Roxhythe, Russell, Ruthven, Rycroft, Salter, Sandeman, Sarsfield, Scarborough, Scott, Scrutton, Segrave, Selwood, Severn, Seward, Shelton, Sherborne, Sheringham, Sherman, Sidney, Silverdale, Smallwood, Somerville, Spencer, Spottiswood, St Clair, St John, Stafford, Stainforth, Standish, Stanhope, Stark, Steed, Steele, Stokes, Straker, Streatfield, Stuart, Swann, Talbot, Tarleton, Temple, Tennant, Thorburn, Thornicroft, Tindal, Tofte, Townley, Travers, Tresham, Turner, Twynam, Umfraville, Urquhart, Vercoe, Vere, Waite, Waldegrave, Walmesley, Walsham, Ward, Waring, Waters, Webster, Weir, Wellesley, Weston, Whately, Whitbread, Whitmore, Wilding, Willard, Windermere, Woburn, Woodham, Woodruff, Woolcombe, Worthington, Wrenn, Wrotham, Wroxley, Wyndham, Valmere, Yarborough American Aristocrats? Americans have no aristocracy as such, although names that names. Personal names should also include both extra classical indicate succession (Bob Fences III) show that some hanker and Shakespearean names (Virgil, Homer, Socrates, Cornelia, after dynasties. For the family names of American ‘old money’ Rosalind, Ophelia) and, for males, a few family names from the and Ivy League characters, add to the mix a few Dutch and normal and aristocratic lists (Frasier, Niles, Winthrop, and so on). German family names as well as more standard English family English aristocratic names Some names are provided that are especially suited to rustic and nicknames would usually serve to tell people apart), take a types, whether shire farmers or homely villagers. The personal few more from the medieval section. Country folk stick to names are ordinary names, usually in the form of short tradition just as much as gentry, if not more so. The family names diminutives. If you don’t have enough (although family names are a selection from rural England in the 19th century. Male Personal Names Common:Alf, Bob, Dick, Fred, Harry, Jack, Ned, Nick, Sam, Ted, Tom, Will Standard:Al, Alf,Andy,Art, Ben, Bert, Bill, Billy, Bob, Carl, Dan, Dick, Don, Ed, Eddie, Frank, Fred, Gib, Gil, Greg, Guy, Hal, Harry, Jack, Jed, Jim, Joe, Ken, Kitt, Len, Marty, Mick, Nat, Ned, Neddie, Nick, Ollie, Pete, Pip, Rick, Robin, Rollo, Russ, Sam, Seth, Sid, Stan, Tad, Ted, Tim, Toby, Todd, Tom, Tony, Wal, Will, Willie Female Personal Names Common:Ann, Bess, Jenny, Kate, Meg, Molly, Nan, Nell, Peg, Polly, Sally, Sue Standard: Aggy,Ally,Ann, Annie, Babs, Bea, Bess, Bessie, Betsy, Betty, Biddy, Bonny, Cissy, Daisy, Dot, Dottie, Ellie, Ethel, Evie, Hannah, Jan, Jane, Janet, Jen, Jenny, Jessie, Jill, Joan, Judy, Julie, Kate, Kitty, Lexie, Lily, Liz, Lizzie, Lynn, Maggie, Meg, Millie, Minnie, Moll, Molly, Nan, Nell, Nelly, Nora, Peg, Peggy, Polly, Rose, Rosie, Sal, Sally, Sue, Tess, Tilly Family Names Adshead, Akers, Antell, Applegarth, Babb, Babbs, Baffin, Bagg, Baggett, Bagnall, Baldey, Bamber, Bark, Barling, Barnstable, Barraclough, Bastable, Bastin, Bather, Batkin, Batt, Bazley, Bebb, Beddall, Beeby, Beecroft, Beedell, Bellis, Belsey, Berridge, Besley, Bibby, Bickle, Biddle, Biddulph, Bigg, Binks, Binns, Bisp, Biss, Blenk, Blenkin, Boam, Bobo, Boddington, Boffey, Bonger, Bonney, Bonser, Borrett, Bossey, Botterill, Botting, Bottom, Bottomley, Botwright, Bowser, Bracher, Brasnett, Brayley, Breary, Brickwood, Brindley, Broadfoot, Broadribb, Brocksopp, Broster, Buckmaster, Budge, Buffard, Bugg, Buggy, Bulger, Bulman, Bunce, Bunt, Burrow, Bushby, Buss, Cade, Cadwaller, Cantrill, Cardno, Catlow, Cattermole, Chaffe, Chaffer, Chard, Chettle, Chilcott, Chitty, Chivers, Chubb, Chugg, Clewes, Coaker, Cobden, Cobley, Coggan, Coggins, Collop, Coney, Coote, Copp, Coppard, Cornock, Cossey, Cottle, Coultip, Crang, Crimp, Croom, Crowles, Cubitt, Cullimore, Cuss, Custance, Cuthbert, Dabbin, Dabbing, Dabbs, Dagg, Dainty, Deeley, Derrick, Dibb, Dibble, Diccox, Diggins, Diggle, Diggles, Digweed, Dimmock, Dinsdale, Dipple, Dobbie, Dobby, Doggett, Dorey, Drabble, Draycott, Dring, Drudge, Duffield, Dufty, Duggan, Duggleby, Dumbrell, Dunkley, Eatwell, Eggins, Entwistle, Erlam, Etchells, Fairclough, Felgate, Fensome, Fenton, Fidge, Fidoe, Figg, Filer, Fincham, Firkins, Flann, Flanner, Flippance, Flook, Flunder, Followes, Fooks, Fremlin, Frisby, Frogley, Frohock, Froome, Frow, Fuggle, Furse, Furze, Gabb, Gaffey, Gagg, Gander, Garbutt, Garlick, Garn, Gazard, Gedge, Giblett, Giddy, Gigg, Gilliat, Gimble, Gimson, Ginger, Gipps, Girdler, Gissing, Gleave, Goggin, Gollogly, Gomm, Goodier, Gook, Gorringe, Gorwyn, Gosden, Gribble, Grigg, Griggs, Grill, Grimble, Grimes, Grimshaw, Grist, Grubb, Guckeen, Guckian, Guild, Gull, Gully, Gumbold, Gummer, Gummidge, Gurden, Haffenden, Hales, Halse, Harpham, Hartle, Hatch, Hayhurst, Hearle, Henley, Henwood, Heppell, Herrick, Herring, Hesketh, Hext, Hicken, Hickmott, Higman, Hinchcliffe, Hindmarsh, Hobley, Hoddy, Hogben, Holdom, Hollick, Holtom, Honeysett, Hook, Hopley, Hopps, Horrocks, Horsfall, Horwood, Hotten, Housely, Howie, Huff, Huffam, Hutton, Huxtable, Icke, Idden, Inskip, Iveson, Izzard, Jaggs, Jellis, Jepson, Jesty, Keel, Keetley, Kerkin, Kerslake, Kettley, Killick, Kinch, Knaggs, Kneebone, Knopp, Knott, Lagden, Laslett, Laverick, Leaper, Leggett, Liddane, Liddy, Liggan, Lithgoe, Lobb, Lodder, Looby, Loody, Lubbock, Luff, Lugard, Lugg, Lumsden, Lyle, Mabb, Mabbitt, Mabbot, Mabbs, Mabbutt, Maffey, Mallam, Mangold, Mapp, Mappin, Marfell, Matthams, Maunder, Maxted, Mayo, Meech, Meeson, Meggison, Meggitt, Meggs, Mellings, Merrikin, Metherell, Mew, Miggles, Miggs, Milsom, Milson, Minchin, Minns, Mobbs, Moberly, Mockler, Mogford, Mogg, Moggs, Morkam, Morphett, Mossman, Mossop, Mottershead, Moulds, Muddle, Muddock, Mudge, Mullock, Murch, Murfin, Murfitt, Musson, Mustill, Mutter, Mutton, Nance, Napper, Neep, Negus, Netherway, Newitt, Niblett, Nickless, Noad, Nobbs, Noblet, Nosworthy, Nottage, Nutt, Offen, Oram, Orcutt, Ord, Orpe, Paddock, Paddon, Pannell, Parham, Pavey, Peay, Peever, Pegg, Pegge, Pegler, Pegrum, Pelly, Pelter, Pendle, Petch, Petcher, Petchey, Pettipher, Philp, Phippen, Phippin, Pickersgill, Pickley, Pickwell, Pidduck, Pigg, Pilkington, Pimblett, Pingree, Pinch, Pinn, Pither, Pochin, Poggs, Polkinghorne, Pomeroy, Pomfret, Postlethwaite, Potticary, Poxon, Pring, Pringle, Prisk, Proudfoot, Puddicombe, Pudding, Puddy, Pugsley, Purslove, Pym, Quaife, Quain, Quenby, Quibell, Quigg, Raddle, Ranby, Rapkins, Ratter, Reakes, Reeson, Riddle, Rix, Roddis, Rosser, Ruddle, Ruffle, Rugg, Rumming, Rump, Sadd, Samways, Sankey, Scantlebury, Scoones, Scouse, Scragg, Scrimgeour, Scroggs, Scruby, Scutt, Sefton, Selth, Semmens, Seward, Shalloo, Sharples, Siggers, Sirett, Skeels, Skerrett, Slee, Sluggett, Smedley, Snoddy, Snuggs, Sparrow, Sparrowhawke, Spink, Spinks, Spriggs, Springett, Sproat, Sprunt, Spurle, Spurrett, Spurrier, Squance, Squarey, Squibb, Squirrel, Staines, Steggal, Stelfox, Stirk, Stith, Strag, Straw, Strutt, Stubbins, Stuppies, Suggett, Swaffer, Swaffield, Swarbrick, Symes, Tabor,Tagg, Tapping, Tarr, Tassell, Teale, Thew, Thick, Thornber, Thwaites, Tibbins, Tibbits, Tibbles, Tibbotts, Tink, Tippell, Tipping, Tippins, Tippling, Tipton, Tisser, Tittmuss, Tobitt, Tonks, Topping, Towse, Toye, Tozer, Trafford, Treasure, Tremlett, Trett, Trible, Tricker, Tripe, Trippe, Tripper, Trist, Troake, Trotter, Trouncer, Trumble, Tudge, Tuffin, Tufley, Tulk, Tully, Tumman, Tunks, Tunnah, Tunnicliffe, Turnock, Tween, Tyrer, Unsworth, Uttley, Varney, Vooght, Wackrill, Waddilove, Waddilow, Walthew, Waltho, Walwin, Wanless, Wann, Waple, Waring, Warrilow, Welburn, Wenden, Werrett, Wescott, Whinnett, Whiskard, Whisker, Whitefoot, Whitlow,Wibberley, Widdicombe, Widdows, Widdup, Wigg, Wigley, Wilberforce, Wilmer, Wintle, Witherden, Witney, Witter, Wolnoth, Woodhead, Wookey, Woolland, Woombill, Worrel, Worsley, Wortley, Wragg, Wrixon, Yeandle, Yeend, Yemm, Yould Medieval English In medieval times, only personal names were used, and bynames used by about 80% of the populace. Spelling was not fixed, and if needed. A few Anglo-Saxon names lingered, but Norman there were variants of most names, including many familiar or pet English names predominated. The distribution of personal names forms. differed from modern times. The top twenty personal names were Male Personal Names Common:Adam, Alan, Geoffrey, Gilbert, Henry, Hugh, John, Nicholas, Peter, Philip, Ralph, Reginald, Richard, Robert, Roger, Simon, Stephen, Thomas, Walter, William Standard:Abel, Abraham,Absalon, Adam, Ailward,Alan,Alban, Albin, Alexander,Alfred, Alger,Almaric, Alured, Andrew,Arnold, Arthur,Aubrey,Augustine, Aymon, Aytrop, Baldwin, Bardulf, Bartelot, Bartholomew, Basil, Benedict, Bernard, Brice, Christopher, Clement, David, Drogo, Edmund, Edward, Elias, Ernald, Ernulf, Eustace, Everard, Fulk, Fulke, Geoffrey, Gerard, Gervase, Gilbert, Giles, Gillemin, Godfrey, Godwin, Graland, Gregory, Guichard, Guy, Hamo, Hamon, Harry, Harvey, Hasculf, Henry, Herbert, Hereward, Howard, Huberd, Hubert, Hugh, Hugo, Humfrey, Humphrey, Imbert, Ivo, Jacob, James, Jocelyn, John, Jordan, Lambert, Laurence, Luke, Maneser, Martin, Matthew, Maurice, Michael, Miles, Milo, Nicholas, Nigel, Norman, Odo, Oliver, Osbert, Oswald, Pagan, Paul, Peter, Philip, Piers, Ralph, Randolph, Ranulf, Rauf, Rayner, Reginald, Renaud, Reynald, Richard, Robert, Robin, Roger, Saer, Segod, Serlo, Sewal, Sewin, Siger, Silvester, Simon, Stephen, Swain, Syward, Theobald, Thomas, Thurstan, Vincent, Wakelin, Walerand, Walter, Warin, Warren, William, Wymer Other:Acer,Adelard, Adric,Ailmar,Ailmund,Alard, Albert, Aldwin,Alfric, Alric, Ambrose, Anselm, Arnulf, Ascil, Auger,Aylmer, Aylwin, Aynulf, Beaumund, Beneger, Berenger, Bertram, Boniface, Brachtmar, Brune, Coleman, Constantine, Daniel, Denis, Dereman, Durant, Eberard, Edric, Edrich, Edulf, Ernwyd, Estmar, Fray, Fromund, Fulbert, Galant, Gamel, Gerebert, Germund, Gerald, Gerold, Gocelin, Godard, Godelot, Godric, Godsalm, Gredlan, Greylond, Harding, Hascuil, Hersent, Hodard, Ilger, Ingeler, Ioco, Isaac, Jakin, Jean, Joceaume, Jocelin, Joseph, Juibert, Julian, Lagot, Layamon, Leofric, Leofwan, Leonard, Letard, Louis, Mark, Mauger, Maurin, Noah, Odard, Oger, Orenga, Osgood, Osmer, Osmund, Otto, Quintin, Randwin, Reinbald, Reymund, Richeman, Ringer, Roce, Rocelin, Roland, Rolf, Sabern, Savaric, Saward, Sawin, Seaman, Solomon, Spakeman, Sperling, Sweting, Talebot, Terry,Theodric, Thorold, Toly, Trahel, Tristram, Turbert, Ulmar, Walding, Walkelin, Wano, Warner, Wigan, Wigar, Wimund, Wulfwin, Wydo, Wymarc, Wymon Female Personal Names Common:Agnes, Alice, Amice, Avice, Beatrice, Cecily, Christiana, Eleanor, Emma, Isabel, Iseult, Joan, Juliana, Mabel, Margaret, Margery, Matilda, Rohesia, Sabina, Sara Standard:Ada, Aelicia, Agatha, Agnes, Albreda, Alditha, Aldreda, Alice, Alina, Alisoun, Alveva, Alviva, Alyenora, Amabel, Amabella, Amice, Amicia,Amy,Anne,Ascelina, Avelina, Avice, Barbara, Basilia, Beatrice, Beatrix, Bertha, Cassandra, Castanea, Cecilia, Cecily, Celestria, Christiana, Christina, Clarice, Clemencia, Constance, Custancia, Custelot, Dionise, Dionisia, Edelina, Edith, Egidia, Ela, Eleanor, Elena, Elizabeth, Ellen, Emma, Emmeline, Estrild, Estrilda, Eugenia, Eva, Felicia, Florence, Galiana, Grecia, Guinevere, Gundreda, Gunnilda, Gunnora, Hawisia, Helewisa, Ida, Idonea, Imayna, Isabel, Isabella, Iseult, Ismenia, Isold, Isotte, Ivetta, Joan, Jocosa, Joia, Joyce, Juliana, Katherine, Lauretta, Lecelina, Lecia, Leticia, Lettice, Loveday, Lucia, Lucy, Mabel, Mabillia, Magdalen, Margaret, Margery, Marsilla, Mary, Matilda, Maud, May, Meliora, Melisant, Muriel, Nicola, Petronella, Philippa, Ragenild, Roesia, Rohesia, Rosamund, Rose, Sabine, Saeva, Sara, Sayna, Sibyl, Susanna, Theophania, Willelma Other:Aldiva, Aldwina,Alexandra, Aleysia, Alieva, Alma,Anabila, Angelet, Athelyna, Barbota, Benedicta, Benigna, Bersaba, Byota, Camilla, Crestina, Desiree, Diane, Edida, Ediva, Ermengarda, Ermenilda, Erneburga, Esilia, Eve, Evelot, Fina, Flandrina, Frethesantha, Gemina, Gencelina, Goda, Godehyda, Godelda, Godeleva, Godiva, Godrun, Golda, Grisilde, Guida, Hadewisa, Hagenild, Helen, Hodierna, Holdyva, Humberh, Hyldeihera, Italia, Laura, Laurencia, Leofrun, Leveva, Lina, Livina, Lyneya, Marsona, Masota, Melodia, Mirabel, Nolicia, Olive, Olympia, Orphilia, Osanna, Pavia, Richemaye, Richende, Runild, Sabelina, Scientia, Sophie, Thomasine, Wyburh, Yerilda, Yvonne Scottish Naming patterns are the same as those for English: one or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Morag Iona Campbell. Scottish names overlap with English names, but many names derive instead from Gaelic or Norse. Both Gaelic and English versions of a name may be used these days, such as Mhairie (Mairi) and Mary. In the 12th century, Gaelic was spoken in much of the country, Norse in the far north and west, English in the southeast, and Norman French in the south. From around the 14th century, there was a rough divide between the Celtic Scots of the highlands who spoke Gaelic and the Anglo-Saxons of the lowlands who spoke Scots (a dialect of English). The latter adopted bynames and nicknames as family names by the 15th century. In the highlands, patronymics started being used about the 12th century, some became inheritable surnames about the 14th, but usage persisted until the 17th century. Scottish women retained their maiden names after marriage until the late 19th century. The ‘mac’ in Scottish family names means ‘son of’ and was common among the highland clans. A girl might use ‘ní’or ‘nic’ Male Personal Names meaning ‘daughter of’ in her name instead. For instance, in the past Dairmud’s son and daughter might have been known as Grant mac Dairmud and Ida ní Dairmud. Note that, especially early on, clan surnames indicated allegiance to a chief rather than a blood relationship. (This gave the names great power .enough in the case of the McGregor clan that when it became unruly, its name was proscribed.) Spelling and capitalisation vary: almost any ‘mac’ can be spelled ‘mc’, and the letter afterwards may be upper case or lower case (the latter commonly for a vowel or ‘c’). So, for example: MacAlpine, Macalpine, McAlpine. Families proudly cling to their own spelling, though! ‘Mac’ is used for all names here. Pronunciation Scottish pronunciation should be familiar to most: it is generally softer than English. The /ch/ as in ‘loch’ is a hiss at the back of the throat, not the hard /tch/ that starts chair. The /quh/ is even softer, something like /kwh/, with the /k/ very light. And of course, you should pronounce and roll all the r’s! Bruce is not a brisk word, but ‘Brroosse’. Common:Alasdair,Angus,Archibald, Blair, Bruce, Callum, Campbell, David, Dugald, Ewan, Fergus, Forbes, Fraser, Hamish, Ian, Kenneth, Lachlan, Murray, Ramsay, Robert Standard:Aaron, Abb, Adaidh, Adair,Adam, Aed, Aeneas, Aenghus, Aidan, Aiden, Ailbert, Aindreas, Ainslie, Alasdair,Alastair,Alec, Alexander,Alistair,Allan, Alpin, Andrew,Angus, Anthony,Aongus, Arran, Artain, Artair,Athol, Aulay, Banquo, Baptist, Barclay, Beathan, Beistean, Ben, Benjamin, Benneit, Bernard, Bhaltair, Blaine, Blair, Brechin, Brendon, Brock, Broderick, Bruce, Cailean, Callum, Calum, Cameron, Campbell, Charles, Charlie, Chattan, Christopher, Clyde, Colin, Colley, Colmac, Connor, Conor, Conran, Cosmo, Cradoc, Craig, Cramond, Crawford, Crinan, Cuthbert, Daniel, Darren, David, Dean, Declan, Denholm, Diarmid, Diarmud, Domhnall, Donald, Dougal, Douglas, Duff, Dugald, Duncan, Durell, Dylan, Eachann, Eairdsidh, Eallair, Eanraig, Ebenezer, Edan, Edward, Eideard, Elphin, Eòin, Erskine, Ethan, Euan, Evan, Ewan, Fagan, Farquhar, Fearchar, Fearghas, Fergus, Fife, Fingall, Finlay, Fionnghal, Fionnlagh, Forbes, Frangan, Fraser, Gary, Gavin, Geordie, George, Gilbert, Gilchrist, Glen, Gordon, Greg, Gregor, Gregory, Guinn, Guinoch, Hamish, Harailt, Harry, Hector, Hugh, Huisdean, Iaian, Iain, Ian, Innis, Jack, Jacob, Jake, James, Jamie, Jason, Jay, Joe, John, Jonathan, Jordan, Joseph, Josh, Joshua, Kai, Kathel, Keddy, Keir, Keith, Ken, Kenneth, Kevoca, Kieran, Kirk, Kyle, Labhrainn, Lachlan, Laird, Lamond, Lawrence, Lawrie, Lee, Lennox, Leon, Leslie, Lewis, Liam, Logan, Lorne, Louis, Lucas, Ludovic, Luke, Lyle, Machan, Magnus, Malcolm, Mánas, Marc, Marcus, Mark, Martin, Mata, Matha, Matthew, Maurice, Max, Maxwell, Michael, Modan, Muir, Mungo, Murdo, Murdoch, Murray, Nairne, Nathalan, Nathan, Neacal, Neil, Niall, Nicholas, Oliver, Owen, Pàidruig, Pàrlan, Patrick, Paul, Peadair, Peter, Raghnall, Raibeart, Ramsay, Ranald, Reece, Reginald, Rhys, Rob, Robbie, Robert, Ronald, Rory, Ross, Rowan, Ruaraich, Ryan, Sam, Samuel, Sandy, Sawney, Scott, Sean, Seonaidh, Seòras, Shaun, Shaw, Shim, Sim, Simon, Siridean, Somhairle, Steaphan, Stephen, Steven, Stewart, Stuart, Tad, Tam, Tàmhas, Tammas, Tavis, Taylor, Tearlach, Thomas, Tiobaid, Torcall, Tormod, Torquil, Tyler,Wallace, William Female Personal Names Common:Ailsa, Alana,Alexina, Catriona, Christy, Eilidh, Elspeth, Esmé, Fenella, Fiona, Iona, Isla, Ismay, Jessie, Katrine, Kirstie, Mairi, Malvina, Morag, Rhona, Shona Standard: Abbie, Abby, Abigail, Ada, Adeline, Aigneis, Aileen, Ailsa, Aimee, Aingeal, Aislinn, Alana, Alexandra, Alexina, Alexis, Alice, Alicia, Alison, Alma, Amber, Amy, Andra, Ann, Anna, Annabella, Antonia, Arabella, Armorel, Ashleigh, Baibín, Bairbre, Beathag, Beatrice, Beitris, Berneen, Bertha, Beth, Bethany, Béthea, Blanche, Brenda, Bríde, Bridie, Brighid, Brooke, Cáit, Caitlin, Caitlyn, Caitrín, Caitríona, Cara, Carla, Carly, Caroline, Catherine, Catriona, Charlotte, Chelsea, Chloe, Christina, Christine, Christy, Ciara, Claire, Claudia, Cliona, Constance, Courtney, Craigie, Cristíona, Danielle, Deborah, Deonaid, Diana, Dorcas, Doreen, Dymphna, Edith, Edwina, Effie, Eileanóra, Eileen, Eilidh, Eilish, Eirene, Eisitr, Eleanor, Elizabeth, Ellen, Ellie, Elsa, Elsie, Elspeth, Elspie, Emily,Emma, Emmeline, Erin, Eriu, Esmé, Esther, Eugenia, Euphemia, Eva, Evaleen, Eve, Felicia, Fenella, Fiachna, Fiona, Fionnaghal, Fionnuala, Flora, Florence, Frances, Freya, Gemma, Georgia, Georgiana, Gertrude, Gillain, Grace, Grainne, Hannah, Harriet, Heather, Helen, Henrietta, Holly, Honora, Ida, Iona, Isabella, Iseabel, Ishbel, Isla, Ismay, Isobel, Ivana, Jade, Jane, Janet, Jasmine, Jeanie, Jemima, Jemma, Jenna, Jennifer, Jessica, Jessie, Joanna, Joanne, Jodie, Jordan, Josephine, Judith, Kara, Kate, Kathleen, Kathryn, Katie, Katrine, Kayleigh, Keeley, Keelin, Kelsey, Kerry, Kiera, Kirsten, Kirstie, Kirsty, Kyla, Laura, Lauren, Leah, Letitia, Lillian, Lisa, Liusaidh, Lorna, Louise, Lucy, Luíseach, Mabel, Madeline, Maeve, Mairi, Máirin, Mairsile, Malvina, Margaret, Maud, Maura, Maureen, Mavis, May, Megan, Melissa, Mia, Miriam, Moira, Moirin, Molly, Mor, Mora, Morag, Móreen, Morgan, Morna, Morven, Muiríol, Muirne, Myrna, Nancy, Natalie, Natasha, Neassa, Neile, Niamh, Nicola, Nicole, Noreen, Olivia, Onora, Oonagh, Paige, Pauline, Pearl, Peigi, Peigin, Phillipa, Phoebe, Rachael, Rachel, Raghnailt, Rebecca, Rebekah, Regina, Rhoda, Rhona, Roberta, Robyn, Rosalie, Rosalind, Rosamund, Rosie, Rowena, Sally, Samantha, Sarah, Senga, Shannon, Sheelagh, Sheena, Shona, Siona, Sinead, Siobhan, Siúsan, Skye, Sophie, Stephanie, Susan, Sybil, Tammy, Taylor, Theresa, Thora, Tina, Una, Ursula, Victoria, Viola, Zoë Family Names Following the standard list of surnames, there are lists for typical highland names (clans and dependents) and lowland names, for those who want the two separate for historical settings. Common:Anderson, Brown, Campbell, Clark, MacDonald, Mitchell, Morrison, Murray, Reid, Robertson, Ross, Scott, Smith, Stewart, Taylor, Thomson, Walker, Watson, Wilson, Young Standard: Abercrombie, Abernethy,Acheson, Affleck, Agnew,Aherne, Ainslie, Aitken, Alexander,Allan, Anderson, Angus, Anstruther, Arbuthnot, Armstrong, Atholl, Auchmulty,Austin, Baillie, Bain, Baird, Ballantyne, Bane, Barclay, Bardon, Begley, Bell, Berridge, Berryman, Bevan, Bignal, Birnie, Bisset, Black, Bosanquet, Bose, Boyd, Boyle, Brann, Brechin, Brodie, Brown, Bruce, Buchan, Buchanan, Burke, Burns, Caird, Cameron, Campbell, Cardew,Cargill, Carrick, Cattanach, Cayzer, Chalmers, Chattan, Chisholm, Christie, Clark, Clifford, Clunes, Clyne, Cochrane, Cockburn, Coinneach, Colquhoun, Comyn, Corsie, Craig, Craigie, Crawford, Crerar, Crichton, Cumming, Cunningham, Curwen, Dalziel, Darroch, Davidson, Dickson, Docherty, Doig, Donaldson, Dougan, Douglas, Dow, Downie, Drummond, Dumbreck, Dunbar, Duncan, Dundas, Dyer, Elder, Elliot, Elphinstone, Erskine, Esslemont, Farquarson, Farquhar, Farquharson, Farrell, Ferguson, Fiddes, Findlay, Finlater, Fleming, Fletcher, Forbes, Foulis, Fraser, Gaffron, Galbraith, Gale, Gallacher, Gallie, Geddes, Gibson, Gordon, Gough, Gow, Graham, Grant, Gray, Gunn, Haig, Hamilton, Hannay, Hastie, Hay, Henderson, Hendry, Hill, Hughes, Hunter, Innes, Jackson, James, Jamieson, Johnston, Johnstone, Jones, Jory, Keith, Kelly, Kennedy, Kenneil, Kermode, Kernuish, Kerr, Kiley, Killeen, King, Kirbishly, Kivlochan, Knock, Kyle, Lambert, Lamond, Lamont, Lang, Leith, Lennox, Leslie, Lindsay, Lithgow, Livingston, Livingstone, Lloyd, Lochhead, Lochore, Logan, Lyall, MacAlister, MacAllister, MacAlonie, MacAlpine, MacAra, MacArdle, MacArthur, MacArtney, MacAsgill, MacAskie, MacAulay, MacAuley, MacAuliffe, MacAuslane, MacAvoy, MacBean, Macbeth, MacBradden, MacBrayne, MacBride, MacCaig, MacCall, MacCallum, MacCambridge, MacCarlich, MacCaw, MacChrystal, MacClacher, MacClelland, MacClements, MacClintock, MacCloy, MacClung, MacColl, MacCombie, MacCorkill, MacCosh, MacCrimmon, MacCrindell, MacCrum, MacCulloch, MacCurtin, MacCutcheon, MacDade, MacDerment, Macdonald, MacDonaugh, MacDonell, MacDonnell, MacDougal, MacDougall, MacDuff, MacDuffie, MacEachan, MacElfrish, MacEwan, MacEwing, MacFadzean, MacFarlane, MacFeat, MacFee, MacFetridge, Macfie, MacGachan, MacGahey, MacGeechan, MacGhie, MacGibbon, MacGill, MacGillivray, MacGlashan, MacGowing, Macgreal, Macgregor, MacGugan, MacHardie, MacHendrie, MacHutchin, MacIan, MacIlraith, Macilroy, Macilvain, Macindeor, Macinnes, Macintosh, Macintyre, Macivor, MacJarrow, MacKail, Mackay, MacKechie, MacKeith, MacKellar, MacKelvey, Mackenzie, Mackie, MacKillop, MacKimmie, MacKinder, MacKinlay, MacKinley, Mackinnon, Mackintosh, MacKissack, MacLachlan, Maclaine, MacLaren, Maclatchie, MacLaurin, MacLay, Maclean, MacLeay, MacLeish, Maclennan, Macleod, MacManus, MacMarquis, MacMaster, MacMichael, Macmillan, MacMinn, MacMurchie, Macnab, MacNair, MacNaughtan, MacNaughton, MacNeil, MacNeur, MacNicol, MacNidder, MacNish, MacOmish, MacPartland, MacPhee, Macpherson, MacQuarie, Macquarrie, MacQuarry, Macqueen, MacQuilly, MacQuistan, Macrae, MacRaith, MacRanald, MacRory, MacRuer, MacSporran, MacTaggart, MacTavish, MacTurk, MacVarish, MacVurich, MacWatters, MacWhirter, MacWilliams, Malcolm, Malise, Malloch, Mar, Marnoch, Marshall, Martin, Matheson, Mathiesen, Maxwell, Meikle, Melrose, Menzies, Millar, Miller, Milne, Mitchell, Moffat, Moir, Moncrieffe, Monteith, Montgomerie, Montrose, Moore, Morison, Morrison, Muir, Mundy, Munro, Murchie, Murphy, Murray, Nairn, Nance, Naysmith, Negus, Nicholson, Nisbet, Ogg, Ogilvie, Ogilvy, Opie, Paisley, Pascoe, Paterson, Peden, Penrose, Pew, Pitcairn, Pitkeathy, Pollock, Quarry, Quiggin, Rafter, Ramsay, Rankeillor, Reagh, Reid, Reilly, Rhoney, Riach, Riddoch, Ring, Ritchie, Robertson, Rose, Ross, Russell, Ryan, Scobie, Scott, Shaw, Simpson, Sinclair, Skeene, Skene, Smith, Sonnborn, Soutar, Stevenson, Stewart, Stirling, Strachan, Stuart, Sullivan, Sutherland, Taylor, Teall, Thompson, Thomson, Towrie, Trease, Trevean, Trewen, Uige, Urquhart, Vessy, Walker, Wallace, Watson, Watt, Weir, Wemyss, Whearty, White, Williamson, Wilson, Wood, Wotherspoon, Wright, Wynn, Young Highland:Abbotson, Abernethy,Adamson, Adie, Alexander,Allan, Allardice, Anderson, Angus, Arthur, Bain, Bannatyne, Bartholomew, Baxter, Beath, Bell, Bethune, Bontein, Bontine, Boyd, Brebner, Brown, Buchan, Buntine, Burdon, Burnett, Burns, Caird, Calder, Callum, Campbell, Cariston, Caw, Chalmers, Cheyne, Clanachan, Clarke, Clouston, Colleir, Colman, Colyear, Combich, Comine, Comrie, Conacher, Coutts, Cowan, Crerar, Crombie, Cruickshank, Cumming, Dallas, Darroch, Davie, Davis, Denoon, Deuchar, Dingwall, Dis, Dochart, Donald, Donaldson, Donlevy, Donnelson, Dove, Dow, Drummond, Duff, Duffy, Duilach, Duncanson, Dunnachie, Edie, Ennis, Esson, Ewing, Farquarson, Federith, Ferguson, Ferries, Fersen, Findlay, Findlayson, Finlayson, Fletcher, Fordyce, Foulis, Frissell, Fullarton, Fullerton, Galbraith, Gallie, Gaunson, Georgeson, Gibson, Gilbertson, Gilchrist, Gilfillan, Gillespie, Gillies, Gilroy, Glen, Gordon, Gow, Gowan, Grant, Gray, Gregorson, Gregory, Greusach, Grewar, Grierson, Griesk, Gruamach, Gruer, Hallyard, Hardie, Harper, Harres, Harris, Haws, Hawson, Henderson, Hendrie, Howison, Hughson, Hutcheon, Hutcheson, Inches, Innes, Isles, Jameson, Johnson, Kean, Keene, Kellie, Kelly, Kennedy, Kenneth, Kilpatrick, King, Kinnieson, Kirkpatrick, Lamb, Lambie, Lamondson, Lamont, Lang, Lean, Leckie, Lees, Lennie, Leslie, Lewis, Linklater, Linsay, Livingstone, Lobban, Loudon, Love, Luke, Lyon, MacAdam, MacAfee, MacAindra, MacAllan, MacAllister, MacAndrew, MacAngus, Macaree, MacArthur, MacAslan, MacAulay, MacAuley, MacAusland, MacAy, MacBean, MacBeath, MacBeth, MacBrayne, MacBrieve, MacCaa, MacCainsh, MacCaishe, MacCallum, MacCalman, MacCamie, MacCammond, MacCardney, MacCartair, MacCash, MacCause, MacCausland, MacCay, MacChlery, MacChruiter, MacClerich, MacClure, MacClymont, MacColl, MacColman, MacComas, MacCombe, MacConacher, MacConachie, MacConnach, MacConnell, MacConochie, MacCorckle, MacCorkill, MacCormick, MacCoul, MacCrae, MacCrain, MacCrea, MacCrie, MacCritchie, Maccrouther, MacCuaig, MacCuffie, MacCulloch, MacCunn, MacCurrach, Macdade, Macdaid, MacDavid, MacDearmid, MacDonachie, MacDonald, MacDonnell, Macdrain, MacDuloth, MacEachern, MacEarachar, MacElfrish, MacEoin, MacEwan, MacFadden, MacFall, MacFarlane, MacFater, MacFeat, Macfie, MacGaw, MacGibbon, MacGilbert, MacGilledow, MacGillegowie, MacGillivour, MacGillonie, Macgilp, MacGilvernock, MacGilvra, Macglashan, Macglasrich, MacGoun, MacGowan, Macgreusich, Macgrewar, Macgrime, MacGrory, Macgruder, MacGruer, MacGuaran, Machaffie, MacHardie, MacHarold, MacHay, MacHenry, MacHowell, MacHutcheon, MacIan, Macilduy, Macililvain, Macilrevie, Macilroy, Macilvrae, Macilvride, Macilzegowie, Macinally, Macindear, Macinnes, Macinroy, Macintyre, MacIsaac, MacIvor, MacJames, MacKames, Mackay, MacKean, Mackechie, Mackee, MacKeggie, MacKellaig, MacKelloch, MacKenzie, MacKerchar, MacKerlich, MacKersey, MacKessock, Mackie, MacKiggan, MacKillop, MacKim, Mackindlay, Mackinlay, MacKinnel, Mackinney, Mackintosh, MacKirdy, MacKissock, Maclae, Maclagan, Maclamond, MacLardie, Maclary, MacLaurin, MacLaws, Maclean, MacLeish, MacLeister, Macleod, MacLergain, MacLewis, MacLiver, Maclock, MacLugash, MacLulich, MacMartin, MacMaster, MacMaurice, MacMenzies, Macmillan, MacMinn, MacMorran, MacMunn, MacMurdo, MacMurdoch, MacMurrich, Macnab, MacNair, MacNaughton, MacNee, MacNeilage, MacNeish, MacNeur, MacNichol, MacNider, MacNish, MacNiven, Macnuyer, MacOnie, MacOurlic, MacPatrick, MacPetrie, MacPhadden, MacPhater, MacPhedran, MacPheidiran, Macpherson, MacPhorich, MacPhun, Macquarrie, Macqueen, Macquire, Macrach, Macrae, MacRaith, MacRankin, MacRobb, MacRobert, MacRory, MacRury, MacShimes, MacSorley, MacSwen, MacSwyde, MacTaggart, MacTavish, MacTear, MacTier, MacTire, MacUre, Macvail, MacVarish, MacVeagh, MacVey, MacVinish, MacWalter, MacWattie, MacWhir, MacWhirter, MacWilliams, Malcomson, Malloch, Marnoch, Marr, Mason, Masterton, Mathiesen, Mavor, McRob, McTary, Meiklham, Mein, Menteith, Menzies, Michie, Miller, Milne, Minnus, Mitchell, Monteith, Moray, Morison, Morren, Munn, Munro, Murchison, Murdo, Murdoson, Murray, Neal, Neilson, Neish, Nichol, Nicol, Nish, Niven, Norie, Norman, O’May, O’Shaig, Ogilvy, Oliphant, Paterson, Patrick, Peter, Polson, Purcell, Rattray, Redford, Reoch, Revie, Risk, Ritchie, Robertson, Robison, Ronald, Ronaldson, Ross, Ruskin, Russell, Sandison, Shaw, Sime, Simpson, Sinclair, Sittal, Small, Sorley, Spence, Spens, Sporran, Stalker, Stewart, Stuart, Sutherland, Swanson, Syme, Taggart, Tarrill, Tawse, Taylor, Thomas, Thomason, Thomson, Todd, Tonnochy, Tosh, Tough, Towart, Train, Tweedie, Tyre, Vass, Wass, Watt, Weaver, Wemyss, Whannel, Whyte, Wilson, Wright, Yule Lowland:Aiken,Aitken, Baikie, Baillie, Bainbridge, Baird, Bairnsfeather, Balios, Balnaves, Barbour, Barclay, Barrie, Beattie, Beilby, Bell, Bellenden, Berwick, Blackie, Blackwood, Blaikie, Blair, Bogue, Boyce, Braid, Brechin, Brisbane, Brough, Brougham, Brown, Brownlee, Brymner, Cairns, Calderwood, Candlish, Cardus, Cargill, Caven, Christison, Clyde, Cochran, Cochrane, Cockburn, Colomb, Crockett, Cronin, Cruden, Cunningham, Cushny, Dalziel, Deems, Dempster, Dinwiddie, Doohan, Doone, Dunbar, Dundas, Dundee, Dunn, Dunning, Eccles, Eckford, Edmonstone, Elder, Fairbairn, Falconer, Fenwick, Ferrier, Gairdner, Galloway, Galt, Geddes, Geikie, Glass, Glendon, Graham, Gregory, Guthrie, Haig, Halkett, Herdman, Hogg, Imey, Inchbald, Inglis, Irvine, Ivory, Jebb, Kerr, Kircaldy, Kirk, Kirkbride, Laird, Laughlin, Lawson, Legge, Lillie, Lipton, Lockhart, Lorimer, Lyall, Lyte, Masson, Melrose, Mill, Miller, Milligan, Milner, Moffat, Mollison, Moncrief, Montrose, Motherwell, Muir, Muirhead, Murray, Nairn, Naysmith, Nesbit, Nisbet, Noël, Orchardson, Pasley, Paterson, Pender, Preston, Primrose, Pringle, Quiller, Raeburn, Ransay, Redpath, Renfrew, Rennie, Renwick, Sanderson, Semphill, Smiles, Smollett, Smybert, Spenlove, Sterling, Stirling, Strang, Strange, Strangeways, Tait, Tannahill, Tassie, Thom, Tolmie, Urquhart, Wardlaw, Wedderburn, Whearty, Wilkie, Wiseheart, Wishart, Yarrow Medieval Scottish In medieval times the highlanders largely used Gaelic names and highland names with Gaelic names and lowland names with the lowlanders English ones, although the distinction was not medieval English names. English names and English versions of clear-cut, and there was borrowing back and forth. Personal Gaelic names became more frequent from the 15th century. See names only were used, and bynames if needed. The names here the Gaelic section for notes on pronunciation. are typical selections. If you need more, supplement the Male Personal Names: Highland Common:Alasdar,Aonghus, Domhnall, Dubhghall, Eoghan, Eoin, Fearghus, Griogair, Lochloinn, Maghnus, Raghnall, Roibeard Standard:Alasdar,Aodh, Aonghus, Brian, Cailin, Cainneach, Domhnall, Donnchadh, Dubhghall, Eoghan, Eoin, Fearchar, Fearghus, Fionnlagh, GilleAndras, Gille Choluim, Gille Easbaig, Gille Mhuire, Griogair, Íomhar, Lochloinn, Maghnus, Maol Choluim, Maol Domhnaich, Maol Dúin, Muireadhach, Muirgheas, Niall, Padraig, Raghnall, Roibeard, Ruadhrí, Somhairle, Toirdhealbhach, Uilliam, Uisdean Male Personal Names: Lowland Common: John, William,Alexander,Andrew, David, Thomas, Robert, Gilbert, James, Patrick, Duncan, Richard Standard: Adam, Alexander,Allan, Andrew,Archibald, Charles, Cristy, David, Donald, Duncan, Edmond, Flore, Forsy, Gavan, George, Gilbert, Giles, Hay, Henry, Hew, Ingram, James, Jasper, John, Malcolm, Martin, Matthew, Maurice, Michael, Neil, Nicholas, Ninian, Norman, Oliver, Patrick, Peter, Philip, Ranald, Richard, Robert, Roger, Simon, Thomas, Walter, William Female Personal Names: Highland Common:Afraig, Beathag, Caitríona, Dearbháil, Ealusaid, Iosbail, Mairghread, Marsaili, Mór, Muirgheal, Raghnailt, Sitheag Standard:Afraig, Áine,Alis,Annábla, Beathag, Cairistíona, Caitilín, Caitríona, Cobhlaith, Dearbháil, Ealusaid, Elinora, Etaín, Fionnghuala, Fenalla, Gormlaith, Gráinne, Iosbail, Iosobal, Iuliana, Lasairíona, Máire, Mairghread, Maol Mhí, Maol Mhuire, Marsail, Marsaili, Meadhbh, Mór, Morag, Mór Mhumhan, Muirgheal, Onóra, Raghnailt, Róis, Saraid, Seonaid, Sibán, Sitheag, Sorcha, Úna Female Personal Names: Lowland Common:Agnes,Annabell, Cristiane, Elizabeth, Ellen, Isabel, Jonet, Katherine, Margaret, Marion, Marjorie, Maude Standard:Ada,Aeschine, Agnes, Alicia, Alison, Allok, Annabell, Annis, Beatrix, Begy, Brunhild, Camy, Cristiane, Christina, Deirdre, Eby, Edane, Ede, Elizabeth, Ellen, Esa, Euphemia, Florie, Forsy, Forveleth, Godit, Grisilda, Isabel, Joan, Jonet, Katherine, Mabel, Margaret, Maria, Marion, Mariota, Marjorie, Matilda, Maude, Mavis, Muriel, Nichola, Orabilia, Swannoc, Sywe, Ysenda Irish Modern naming patterns are the same as those for English: one or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Ciara Niamh Murphy. Irish names overlap with English and Scottish names, and both Gaelic and English versions of a name can be used, so a child might as easily be called Josephine as Seosaimhthín - they sound much the same. Both spellings of such names may be included. The Irish started to use inheritable family names widely about the 13th century. The ‘mac’in Irish family names means ‘son of’ just as it does in Scotland: both are Gaelic. (The Scots people migrated from Ireland to Pictish Caledonia after the Romans left Britain.) Spelling and capitalisation vary: ‘mac’ can be spelled ‘mc’, and the letter afterwards may be upper case or lower case. ‘Mac’ is used for all names here. Sometimes simply ‘m’ or ‘ma’ is used (as in ‘Mahony’ for instance) with the following letter in lower case. Fitz, from the French word fils, also means son. O means ‘grandson’, and can refer to an earlier ancestor - it gained its current apostrophe when first transcribed into English. A girl might use ‘ní’ or ‘nic’ meaning ‘daughter of’in her name instead. For instance, in the past Brendan’s son and daughter might have been known as Patrick mac Brendan and Gráinne ní Brendan. Pronunciation Irish has already been simplified through contact with English: most of the letters sound the same, but a few are different enough to note. The /ch/ is a hiss at the back of the throat, not the hard /tch/ that starts chair. Both /bh/ and /mh/ sound like a soft /v/ (sometimes /w/), /dh/ and /gh/ sound like /y/, /sh/ and / th/ sound like /h/, and /fh/ is silent. Before ‘e’ or ‘i’, /s/ is pronounced /sh/. The /i/ is a long /ee/ sound, /c/ and /g/ are always hard, /a/ sounds like the short /o/ of ‘box’, and /á/ sounds like /aw/. Siobhan is pronounced ‘Sheevon’, for example, or even ‘Shevawn’. Male Personal Names Common:Aaron, Adam, Cian, Conor, Daniel, David, Dylan, Eoin, Jack, James, John, Liam, Luke, Mark, Michael, Patrick, Ryan, Sean, Shane, Thomas Standard:Aaron, Abram, Adair, Adam, Adhamh, Adie, Adrian, Aengus, Aidan, Aidrian, Ailín, Aimon, Aindréas, Ainsley,Alan, Alastar, Albert, Alex, Alexander, Alick, Alistair, Allen, Allister,Aloysius, Alphonsus, Alsandair, Alsander, Ambrós, Andrew, Angus, Anntoin, Anrai, Antain, Anthony, Antoine, Aodh, Aodhan, Aonghas, Ardal, Arlen, Árón, Art, Artagan, Artair, Artegal, Arth, Arthur, Auliffe, Austin, Baird, Bairre, Barclay, Barney, Barra, Barry, Bartholomew, Bartley, Basil, Bearach, Bearnár, Beartlaidh, Ben, Benjamin, Berach, Bevan, Blaine, Blair, Bowie, Boyd, Brady, Bram, Bran, Brandon, Brannon, Brant, Brendan, Brett, Brian, Brody, Brogan, Bron, Bryan, Bryn, Bryon, Cahal, Cahan, Cailan, Cairbre, Cairell, Cal, Caley, Callum, Cameron, Carlin, Carney, Carrick, Carroll, Casey, Cathal, Cecil, Cedric, Chad, Christopher, Chulainn, Cian, Ciaran, Cillian, Coireall, Colin, Colm, Colman, Colum, Columba, Conall, Conan, Conn, Connell, Connor, Conor, Conroy, Conway, Corey, Cormac, Cornelius, Cory, Craig, Culin, Culley, Curran, Cyril, Dale, Daley, Dallas, Daniel, Dara, Daragh, Darby, Darcy, Darragh, Darren, David, Dean, Declan, Dermot, Derry, Desmond, Devin, Diarmaid, Diarmuid, Digby, Dillon, Dominic, Don, Donagh, Donaghy, Donal, Donald, Donnchadh, Donnell, Donogh, Donovan, Dougal,  Douglas, Duane, Duff, Dwayne, Dylan, Eadoin, Eagon, Eamon, Eamonn, Earvin, Edan, Edward, Egan, Einrí, Eion, Enda, Ennis, Eogan, Eoghan, Eoin, Eric, Erin, Ervin, Ethan, Evan, Ewan, Ewen, Faelan, Fagan, Fallon, Faolán, Fearghal, Fearghus, Felan, Felix, Fergal, Fergus, Filib, Finbar, Findlay, Finlay, Finn, Fionn, Fitzroy, Flannan, Flannery, Flynn, Forbes, Frank, Frederick, Gallagher, Galvin, Garrett, Gary, Gavin, Gearalt, Geoffrey, Gerald, Gerard, Gilroy, Glen, Glyn, Godfrey, Gordon, Gorman, Gorry, Grady, Gregory, Gus, Guthrie, Guy, Hannraoi, Harry, Henry, Hugh, Humphrey, Ian, Iarlaith, Innes, Innis, Ionhar, Ioseph, Irving, Ivor, Jack, Jake, James, Jamie, Jason, John, Jonathan, Jordan, Joseph, Josh, Joshua, Kacey, Kaine, Kane, Karl, Kearney, Keir, Keiran, Keith, Kelvin, Kendrick, Kenneth, Kenny, Kermit, Kerwin, Kevan, Kevin, Kian, Kieran, Killian, Kyle, Labhrás, Laurence, Lee, Léon, Liam, Logan, Lorcan, Luke, Maghnus, Mal, Malachy, Malvin, Manus, Mark, Martain, Martin, Matthew, Matthias, Michael, Micheal, Miles, Morgan, Murphy, Murray, Murtagh, Nathan, Neal, Neil, Nevin, Niall, Nicholas, Nyle, Oisin, Oscar, Owain, Owen, Paddy, Padraic, Padraig, Parlan, Parthalán, Parthlán, Pat, Patrick, Paul, Peadar, Peter, Philip, Pierce, Quinn, Raghnall, Randal, Raymond, Reagan, Reece, Regan, Reginald, Renny, Reynald, Rhodan, Richard, Riocárd, Riordan, Roarke, Robert, Robin, Roderick, Roibart, Roibín, Ronan, Ronat, Rory, Ross, Rowan, Ruaidhri, Ruark, Ryan, Sam, Samuel, Scanlon, Scott, Séafra, Seaghan, Séamas, Seamus, Seán, Seanán, Séarlas, Senan, Shamus, Shane, Shannon, Shaun, Shawn, Shea, Simon, Síomón, Sion, Sloan, Sloane, Steafán, Stephen, Steven, Strachan, Strahan, Tadhg, Teagan, Teague, Thaddeus, Thady, Thomas, Tiernan, Tim, Timothy, Tiomóid, Tomaisin, Tomás, Tommy, Torrance, Trevor, Troy, Tulley, Tynan, Tyrone, Uilliam, Uinseann, Uisdean, Vailintín, Vaughan, Vaughn, William Female Personal Names Common:Amy,Aoife, Caoimhe, Chloe, Ciara, Emily, Hannah, Kate, Laura, Leah, Megan, Niamh, Nicole, Rachel, Rebecca, Roisin, Sarah, Shauna, Sinead, Sophie Standard: Abbie, Abigail, Addie, Agata, Aghna, Agnes, Aibhilin, Aideen, Aifric, Aigneis, Ailbhe, Aileen, Ailidh, Ailionora, Ailís, Aine, Ainsley,Aisling, Aislinn, Alaina, Alana, Alanna, Alannah, Alastrina, Alastrine, Alastríona, Alby, Alexandra, Alexandrina, Alice, Alicia, Alison, Alma,Alva, Alyson, Amanda, Amber, Amy,Andrea, Anna, Anne, Annora, Aoife, Arlene, Ava, Baibín, Báirbre, Barbara, Bébhinn, Bedelia, Bernadette, Bevin, Binne, Blanche, Breanna, Breena, Brenda, Brenna, Briana, Brianna, Bridey, Bridget, Bridie, Brighid, Brigid, Brigit, Briona, Bronagh, Bryana, Cailin, Cait, Caiti, Caitin, Caitlin, Caitrín, Caitriona, Caoimhe, Cara, Carmel, Carrie, Casey, Catherine, Ceara, Cecily, Ceire, Charlotte, Chelsea, Chloe, Christine, Ciara, Claire, Clara, Clare, Cliodhna, Cliona, Clodagh, Colleen, Cordelia, Cori, Courtney, Cristín, Cristiona, Dairine, Damhnait, Dana, Danielle, Dearbháil, Dedre, Deidra, Deirdre, Derdre, Derry, Dervil, Dervla, Devnet, Devyn, Dierdre, Doireann, Doreen, Dorothy, Dorren, Duana, Dymphna, Dympna, Éadaoin, Edana, Edwina, Eibhilín, Eileánóir, Eileen, Eilinora, Eilís, Eilise, Eilish, Eily, Eimear, Eimíle, Eithna, Eithne, Eleanor, Eleanore, Elen, Elizabeth, Ella, Ellen, Ellie, Emer, Emily, Emma, Ena, Enya, Erin, Eriu, Erlina, Ethna, Eva, Eve, Eveleen, Evelyn, Fainche, Fanny, Fenella, Fianait, Fidelma, Finol, Finola, Fiona, Fionna, Fionnuala, Fionnula, Gemma, Georgia, Gill, Gillian, Glenna, Glynis, Gormlaith, Grace, Grainne, Grania, Gwen, Gweneth, Hannah, Helen, Hilde, Holly, Honor, Honora, Honorah, Ida, Ilene, Ina, Isabel, Isibéa, Isleen, Islene, Ita, Jade, Jane, Janey, Jennifer, Jessica, Jill, Jilleen, Jillian, Joan, Jodie, Josephine, Juliane, Karen, Kate, Katelyn, Katharine, Kathie, Kathleen, Kathryn, Katie, Kayleigh, Keeley, Keelie, Keely, Keira, Kelly, Kenna, Keriann, Keva, Kiera, Labhaoise, Lara, Lasairíona, Lassarina, Laura, Lauren, Lavena, Leah, Lean, Leanne, Lelia, Lena, Lil, Lilly, Lisa, Louisa, Louise, Lucy, Luiseach, Mab, Madeline, Maeve, Maggie, Maighread, Maille, Máire, Mairead, Mairin, Mairsile, Majella, Mandy, Margaret, Margo, Maria, Mary, Matilda, Maura, Maureen, Maurya, Mave, Mavelle, May, Meagan, Meaveen, Meg, Megan, Melva, Melvina, Meriel, Michaela, Michelle, Moira, Molly, Mona, Moreen, Morgan, Morna, Muirin, Muirne, Muriel, Myrna, Nainseadh, Nancy, Natasha, Neala, Nia, Niamh, Nicola, Nicole, Nola, Nóra, Norah, Noreen, Nuala, Odharnait, Oilbhe, Olive, Olivia, Ona, Onóra, Oona, Oonagh, Orla, Orlaith, Orlaithe, Orna, Ornait, Ornóra, Padraigin, Paili, Pal, Patricia, Peig, Peigi, Philomena, Polly, Rachael, Rachel, Rebecca, Regan, Regina, Riana, Riona, Rionach, Rita, Robyn, Róise, Roisin, Rose, Rosemary, Rowena, Ruth, Sadhbba, Sadhbh, Saoirse, Sarah, Saraid, Seana, Séarlait, Seosaimhthín, Shannon, Shauna, Sheelagh, Sheelah, Sheena, Sheila, Shelagh, Shibahn, Shiela, Shona, Shonda, Siban, Sile, Sine, Sinead, Siobaigh, Siobhan, Siobhanin, Siofra, Sissy, Sophie, Sorcha, Stephanie, Súsanna, Sybil, Tara, Taylor, Tessie, Thelma, Theresa, Toiréasa, Treasa, Treise, Triona, Ula, Una, Ursula, Vevina, Victoria, Yvonne, Zaira, Zara, Zoë BOOK OF NAMES 42 Family Names Common: Byrne, Doyle, Gallagher, Kelly, Kennedy, Lynch, McCarthy, Moore, Murphy, Murray, O’Brien, O’Connor, O’Doherty, O’Neill, O’Reilly, O’Sullivan, Quinn, Ryan, Smith, Walsh Standard: Adair,Ahearne, Aheron, Aird, Bain, Bannon, Barrett, Barry, Beahan, Beatty, Bell, Bergan, Bergin, Berry, Binchy, Bird, Blaine, Blighe, Bohan, Boland, Bolger, Boran, Borin, Boughy, Boyce, Boylan, Bradley, Brady, Brahan, Brannigan, Brawney, Breen, Brennan, Brian, Brin, Brodie, Brogan, Brosnahan, Broun, Brown, Bruin, Buckley, Burke, Byrne, Caddell, Cady, Caffrey, Cahill, Calhoun, Callaghan, Callan, Campbell, Canning, Carew, Carlin, Carmody, Carney, Carron, Carson, Carton, Cary, Caskey, Cass, Cassidy, Cavanagh, Cawley, Claffey, Clanchy, Clancy, Cleary, Cleland, Cloherty, Clohessy, Closky, Clune, Clyne, Cochrane, Coffey, Coglan, Cogley, Colgan, Collins, Colvin, Conan, Condon, Conlin, Conn, Connelly, Conner, Connor, Connors, Conroy, Conway, Coonan, Corcoran, Corey, Corkin, Corrigan, Corry, Costigan, Cotter, Coughlin, Coulter, Counihan, Cowgan, Coyle, Crawley, Creagh, Crean, Creedan, Creegan, Crilley, Crimmins, Cronin, Crosbie, Crosby, Crowley, Crummer, Cuddy, Culhane, Culhoun, Cullinane, Cunningham, Curley, Curnane, Currie, Curtayne, Curtis, Cusack, D’Arcy, Dacey, Daley, Darcy, Daunt, Davoran, Dawley, De Barra, Deghy, Delahunty, Delane, Delany, Dennehy, Denny, Derrick, Desmond, Devany, Devery, Devin, Devine, Diarmid, Dignan, Dixon, Doble, Doherty, Dolan, Donachie, Donaghy, Donnelly, Donoghue, Donohue, Doody, Doohan, Doolan, Dooley, Doon, Dorrian, Doud, Doughan, Dougharty, Dowden, Dowdy, Dowey, Downes, Doyle, Drew, Duane, Duff, Duffey, Duggan, Duignan, Dwyer, Dyal, Egan, Ellig, Fagan, Fahey, Fane, Farley, Farnan, Farrell, Faucett, Fay, Fealy, Fearon, Feeney, Fegan, Fennessy, Fenney, Ferrick, Ferris, Ferry, Finneran, Finsley, Fitzgerald, Fitzgibbon, Fitzpatrick, Fitzsimmons, Flaherty, Flannagan, Flannigan, Flinn, Flood, Flynn, Foley, Folgan, Forbes, Ford, Foy, Foynes, Frawley, Freethy, Furey, Fynan, Gaff, Gaffey, Galbraith, Gallagher, Gallivan, Galvin, Gannon, Gant, Garraghty, Garrahan, Garrity, Garry, Garvey, Gaughan, Gavigan, Gaynor, Geary, Geelan, Geoghan, Geraghty, Gettins, Gibney, Gilfoyle, Gill, Gillan, Gilligan, Gilmore, Gilroy, Glanchy, Gleason, Glennon, Glinn, Gogarty, Golden, Goodwin, Gorey, Gorham, Goslin, Grady, Graham, Granahan, Grayden, Greeley, Greer, Gregan, Gregg, Gribbin, Griffin, Grimley, Grogan, Guiness, Guiney, Gunning, Guthrie, Hadden, Hafner, Hagan, Hagerty, Haley, Haliday, Halley, Halligan, Halpin, Hamill, Hamran, Handley, Hanifin, Hanlin, Hanlon, Hanly, Hannity, Hannon, Hanratty, Hare, Hart, Hartigan, Harvey, Haugh, Hay, Hayes, Healey, Heaney, Hearne, Hefferman, Heffernan, Hegarty, Hellowell, Henchy, Heneghan, Henn, Hennley, Hensey, Heraghty, Herlihy, Herne, Hickey, Higgin, Higgins, Hoban, Hoey, Hogg, Holland, Holohan, Horan, Horgan, Houlihan, Hourigan, Hoy, Hughes, Hurst, Hyland, Ivers, Ivors, Jennings, Jorden, Joyce, Kane, Kavanagh, Kean, Keaney, Kearins, Kearney, Keary, Keaty, Keefe, Keegan, Keeley, Keenan, Kehoe, Keightley, Kellahan, Kellegher, Kelleher, Kellett, Kelly, Kenn, Kenna, Kenneally, Kennedy, Kennelly, Kenney, Kennyon, Keogh, Kermody, Kernaghan, Kerr, Kerrigan, Kerwin, Keveny, Kevigan, Keyes, Kiernan, Kilbridge, Kilcullen, Kilduff, Kilkelly, Kilkenny, Killin, Killpatrick, Kilpatrick, Kilrea, Kindellan, King, Kinney, Kirley, Kirwan, Knowlan, Lacey, Lacy, Lafferty, Laffey, Lamb, Lanaghan, Lanahan, Lane, Lannigan, Largan, Larkin, Laverty, Lawder, Leach, Leachán, Leavy, Lee, Lehane, Lennon, Linehan, Linnegan, Logan, Logue, Longhan, Lord, Lorden, Louden, Loughrin, Lowry, Lundie, Lydon, Lynch, Lynsky, Lyons, MacAlevy, MacAllen, MacAndrews, Macaninch, Macannally, MacAsey, MacAuliffe, MacAvee, MacAvoy, MacAwley, MacBride, MacBurney, MacCafferty, MacCaffery, MacCall, MacCallin, MacCamore, MacCann, MacCarhon, MacCarrick, MacCarron, MacCartney, MacCarvill, MacCauley, MacCaw, MacClancy, MacClay, MacCleary, MacClery, MacClintock, MacClory, MacCloskey, MacClughan, MacCluskey, MacColgan, MacConaughey, MacConnal, MacConnell, MacCormack, MacCormick, MacCourt, MacCoy, MacCready, MacCromick, MacCrory, MacCuill, MacCulloch, MacCune, MacCurtin, MacDaid, MacDevitt, MacDonald, MacDonnell, MacDowell, MacElderry, MacElhinney, MacEllistrim, MacElroy, MacEnroe, MacEntee, MacEvilly, MacFadden, MacFarland, MacFrederick, MacGaghran, MacGahey, MacGarrigle, MacGarry, MacGauley, MacGavisk, MacGee, MacGennis, MacGeogh, MacGill, MacGillmartin, MacGinley, MacGinn, MacGinty, MacGivney, MacGlashan, MacGlynn, MacGoldrick, MacGorman, MacGough, MacGovern, MacGowan, MacGrane, MacGrath, MacGraw, MacGreevy, MacGuigan, MacGuire, MacGuirk, MacGunn, MacIlroy, MacIltavish, MacIlveen, MacIlvenna, MacInnis, MacIntire, MacIntyre, MacIvors, MacKane, MacKean, MacKechnie, Mackee, MacKelvey, Macken, MacKeon, Mackeown, MacKinley, MacKinney, MacKinnon, MacLain, MacLarty, MacLean, MacLoughlin, MacMahon, MacMathan, MacMullen, MacMurray, MacMurrough, MacNamara, MacNaughton, MacNeice, MacNeil, MacNerney, MacNevin, MacNulty, MacParlan, MacPike, MacQuaid, MacQuilkin, MacQuillan, MacRaith, MacRanald, MacRickard, MacRory, MacSorley, MacSweeney, MacTavish, MacTeig, MacUlhaney, MacVerry, MacWade, MacWilliams, Magauran, Magee, Magill, Maginn, Magnan, Magoran, Magraith, Magraw, Mahaffy, Maher, Mahon, Mahony, Mainey, Mallaghan, Malloy, Malone, Maloy, Manley, Mannion, Mannix, Marr, Marren, Martin, Massey, Mawhinney, Mayo, McCarthy, Meachar, Meade, Meara, Meath, Meehan, Meenan, Menagh, Merriman, Miley, Milligan, Millikin, Minogue, Minto, Molohan, Molone, Molony, Monaghan, Monk, Moody, Mooney, Moore, Moran, Morell, Moriarty, Morley, Morrissey, Morrow, Moyle, Moyles, Mulally, Mulcahy, Mulconry, Muldown, Mulhearn, Mulholland, Mullally, Mullan, Mullarkey, Mullen, Mulligan, Mullin, Mulloy, Mulratty, Mulrooney, Mulryan, Mulvey, Murphy, Murray, Murrin, Nagle, Nash, Neal, Neary, Neill, Nelligan, Nevin, Nolan, Noonan, Norris, Nowlan, Nugent, O’Bannen, O’Boyle, O’Brien, O’Byrne, O’Carolan, O’Carroll, O’Clery, O’Connell, O’Connor, O’Conor, O’Conway, O’Corcoran, O’Coughlan, O’Dea, O’Doherty, O’Donnell, O’Donoghue, O’Driscoll, O’Duffy, O’Dwyer, O’Faherty, O’Feely, O’Ferrall, O’Finan, O’Flanagan, O’Flynn, O’Gara, O’Gorman, O’Grady, O’Halloran, O’Hanrahan, O’Hara, O’Hardy, O’Hayer, O’Healihy, O’Hearn, O’Hegarty, O’Hogan, O’Kane, O’Keane, O’Kelly, O’Kerry, O’Laverty, O’Leary, O’Loughlin, O’Malley, O’Mara, O’More, O’Mulconry, O’Neal, O’Neill, O’Rafferty, O’Reilly, O’Roark, O’Shaughnessy, O’Shea, O’Sullivan, Orman, Orr, Padden, Palmer, Pender, Pendergast, Phelan, Pierce, Plunkett, Power, Quaid, Qualey, Quealey, Quillan, Quinlan, Quinlevan, Quinn, Rabbitt, Radden, Rait, Ranahan, Reagan, Reardon, Reavey, Redmond, Regan, Reilly, Rice, Riley, Roark, Robey, Robinson, Roche, Ronayne, Rooke, Rooney, Rourke, Rowley, Ryan, Sandys, Scanlan, Scott, Semple, Sewell, Shade, Sharkey, Shaughnessy, Shea, Shee, Sheehy, Shelley, Sheridan, Shiels, Skelly, Slattery, Sloane, Smith, Somers, Sommerville, Speirs, Spellman, Strahan, Stuart, Sullivan, Sweeney, Tallon, Tansey, Teague, Tegan, Tiernan, Tierney, Tilley, Tobin, Tollis, Toohey, Toomey, Tormey, Tracy, Travers, Traynor, Troy, Tunney, Tweedy, Tynan, Vail, Wall, Walsh, Whelan, White, Wooley, Yeats Medieval Irish In medieval times, only personal names were used, and bynames Róis, Sibán, and Síle). A typical selection has been included. if needed. The personal names were largely Gaelic, or Gaelic English names became more frequent from the 15th century, and versions of other names (Anglo-Norman female names, for many of the Gaelic names had been dropped by the 16th. See the instance, ended up as Aibhilín, Alis, Annábla, Caitilín, Caitríona, Gaelic section for notes on pronunciation. Cristina, Elinora, Isibél, Iuliana, Máire, Máirghréad, Oilen, Onóra, Male Personal Names Common:Aodh, Brian, Conchobhar, Cormac, Domhnall, Eoghan, Niall, Séamus, Seán, Tadhgh Standard: Ádhamh, Áengus, Ainníleas, Amhlaoibh, Aodh, Art, Baothghalach, Brian, Cairbre, Cathal, Cathaoir, Céadach, Cionaodh, Colla, Conchobhar, Conghalach, Conn, Cormac, Cú, Dauídh, Diarmaid, Domhnall, Donn, Donnchadh, Dubhghall, Dubhthach, Dúnlang, Eachmharcach, Éamonn, Echmhílidh, Énri, Eoghan, Eoin, Faolán, Fearadhach, Feardorcha, Fearghal, Fearghus, Feidhlimidh, Finghin, Flaithbheartach, Flann, Gearóid, Giolla, Íomhar, Laighneach, Lochlainn, Lughaidh, Maine, Maoilfhinnéin, Maol, Maolruanaidh, Matha, Mathghamhain, Meanma, Muircheartach, Muireadhach, Muirgheas, Murchadh, Niall, Nicol, Nioclás, Ógán, Olibhéar, Paidín, Parthalán, Piaras, Pilib, Raghnall, Réamonn, Riocard, Ross, Ruaidhrí, Rudhraighe, Séafraid, Séamus, Seán, Somhairle, Stiamhna, Tadhg, Tadhgh, Tighearnán, Toirdhealbhach, Tomaltach, Tomás, Tuathal, Uaithne, Uilliam Female Personal Names Common: Caitríona, Fionnghuala, Gormlaith, Gráinne, Máire, Máirghréad, Mór, Sadb, Sibán, Úna Standard:Affraic, Aibhilín, Aíbinn, Ailbe, Ailbhe, Áine, Alis, Annábla, Arlaith, Barrdhubh, Bean Laighean, Bean Mhí, Bean Mhumhan, Bébinn, Béibhinn, Ben Mide, Ben Muman, Caitilín, Caitríona, Cobhlaith, Cristina, Der Bforgaill, Derbáil, Dubchoblaig, Dubh Essa, Dubh Themrach, Dubhchobhlaigh, Dubhóc, Éadaoin, Eibhilín, Elec, Elinora, Etaín, Fionnghuala, Gormlaith, Gráinne, Imag, Inghean Dubh, Isibél, Iuliana, Lasairíona, Máire, Máirghréad, Maol Mhí, Meadhbh, Mór, Mór Mhumhan, Nuala, Oilen, Onóra, Orla, Raghnailt, Róis, Sadb, Séarlait, Sibán, Síle, Sinéad, Slaíne, Sorcha, Úna Gaelic Gaelic was the Celtic language spoken by the Irish, including those who early on migrated to what became Scotland (that is, the Scots). The language and sets of names in use diverged in medieval times. The names here are from the Dark Ages; there are later Gaelic names in the Irish and Scottish medieval lists. Some of the names appear as compounds, but could as easily be hyphenated or run together, as you prefer: Máel Coluim, Máel.coluim, Máelcoluim (Malcolm). In their pagan days, the Irish were sailors and reavers like the later Vikings; by the 5th century they were Christian, reknowned for both their scholars and saints, so biblical and saints’ names were not uncommon. Only personal names were used, and bynames if needed, most often patronymics. Roughly, in this time: ‘mac’meant ‘son of’ and ‘ingean’ meant ‘daughter of’. In Ireland from the 10th century, ‘ó’ meant ‘male descendant of’, and ‘inghean uí’ meant female descendant of. These would be followed by the gentive of the father’s or ancestor’s name (it usually just involved adding an ‘i’ to the last syllable). So the son and daughter of Cormac, son of Fhearchar, might be known as Donnchad mac Cormaic and Gormlaith ingean Cormaic. If they were Irish, Cormac’s children could also identify themselves by clan affiliation, as in Donnchad ó Fhearchair. Pronunciation Variants of names are included (Áengus, Óengus, Fergus, Fearghas, and so on). Gaelic spellings and pronunciations varied with time and place. They can seem obscure at times, but most complexities can be ignored for names. Many letters are either silent or subtle: you have to try and smooth things together. For example, the highland throwing dirk, the sgian dubh (black knife; dubh is black), is pronounced not ‘siggian dub-huh’, but ‘skee.an doo’, more or less. Stress is on the first syllable. The /c/ and /g/ are hard, and the /r/ is rolled. The /s/ is /sh/ if it precedes ‘e’ or ‘i’. The /ch/ is a hiss at the back of the throat, as in ‘loch’, and /gh/ is the same brought forward. The /th/ and /ph/ have their normal values, but otherwise /h/ softens consonants, sometimes (as in /fh/ or /bh/) almost to inaudibility. The /db/ is like the soft /th/ of ‘the’, and the /mh/ is close to /v/. Vowels are longer if accented. The /aé/ (or áe, aí, ái) is pronounced /ai/ and the /oé/ (or óe, oí, ói) is ‘Dearbháil’ is Djer-vahl, ‘Fearghas’ is Ferh-ghus, ‘Gabhran’ is pronounced /oi/. The ‘i’ may sometimes just reinforce a Gahv-ruhn, ‘Gobnait’ is Gohb-nit, ‘Gormlaith’ is Goorm-la, consonant, though. Remember to smooth it all together. ‘Medb’ (or Meadhbh) is Maeve, ‘Saraid’ is Sahr-ich, ‘Sile’ and ‘Gráinne’ (medieval names) are Shee-luh and Groh-nyuh. Some examples: ‘Aodhnait’ is pronounced Eh-nat, ‘Bébhinn’ is Beh-vin, ‘Caireann’ is Kaw-ran, ‘Damhnait’ is ‘Dev-nat’, Male Personal Names Common: Áed, Ailill, Conall, Cormac, Domnall, Eochaid, Fergus, Fland, Lugaid, Óengus Standard:Adomnán, Áed, Áedgen, Áengus, Affiath, Ailchú, Ailerán, Ailill, Aindíles, Ainmere, Airard, Airbertach, Amalgaid, Amargein, Amlaíb, Anfudán, Anmchaid, Artt, Artúr,Assíd, Báetán, Báethchellach, Báethgalach, Báethíne, Baiscend, Banbán, Bécc, Beollán, Blathmac, Bran, Bressal, Brian, Briccéne, Bróccan, Búadach, Búadachán, Caicher, Cailte, Cairpre, Cáirthenn, Carthach, Cathal, Cathalán, Cathassach, Cellach, Cenn Fáelad, Cennétig, Cerball, Cernach, Cernachán, Cett, Cian, Cillíne, Cináed, Clérchéne, Cobthach, Colcu, Colmán, Columb, Conaing, Conall, Conchobar, Condlae, Congal, Congalach, Conlae, Conmacc, Conn, Connla, Cormac, Cormacán, Coscrach, Crimthann, Crinán, Crundmáel, Cú Maige, Cú Mara, Cú Roí, Cú Slébe, Cú Ulad, Cúán, Cuilén, Cuilénán, Cuindles, Cummascach, Dabíd, Dáire, Dálach, Dauíd, Demmán, Diarmait, Dícuill, Díglach, Dímmae, Dínertach, Domhnall, Domnall, Donn Slébe, Donnchad, Donndubán, Donngal, Duarcán, Dubthach, Duinechaid, Dúnadach, Dunchad, Dúngal, Dúnlang, Echmhílidh, Echthigern, Énnae, Eochaid, Eochu, Éogan, Eoghan, Ercc, Érennach, Fáelán, Faílbe, Fearghas, Fechtnach, Fedacch, Fedelmid, Feradach, Ferchar, Ferdomnach, Fergal, Fergus, Fhearchar,  Fiachna, Fiachra, Fiachrae, Fiachu, Finán, Find, Findchad, Fíngin, Finguine, Finn, Finnchú, Fínnechta, Fínsnechta, Fintan, Flaithbertach, Flaithem, Flaithrí, Fland, Flann, Flannacán, Fogartach, Forannán, Forbassach, Fothad, Fothud, Gabhran, Gadra, Gáethíne, Garalt, Gébennach, Gilla Brénainn, Gilla Brigde, Gilla Cáemgein, Gilla Ciaráin, Gilla Comgaill, Gilla Críst, Gilla Mochutu, Gilla na Náem, Gilla Pátraic, Glassán, Gormán, Gormgilla, Guaire, Ímar, Imchad, Indrechtach, Labraid, Lachtnán, Lennán, Liber, Lóegaire, Loingsech, Lorccán, Lugaid, Lughaidh, Mac Bethad, Mac Laisre, Mac Raith, Máel Brénainn, Máel Brigde, Máel Ciaráin, Máel Coluim, Máel Dúin, Máel Fábaill, Máel Finnén, Máel Ísu, Máel Máedóc, Máel Mithig, Máel Mórda, Máel Muad, Máel Muire, Máel Pátraic, Máel Ruanaid, Máel Sechnaill, Máel Tuili, Máelán, Máelodor, Máenach, Maine, Marcán, Mathgamain, Móenach, Morand, Morrann, Mugrón, Muirchertach, Muirecán, Muiredach, Muirgius, Murchad, Nathí, Nechtan, Niall, Nuadu, Odar, Óengus, Óenucán, Oisean, Oisian, Oisséne, Ólchobar, Orthanach, Ragallach, Rebachán, Rechtabra, Rígbarddán, Robertach, Rónán, Rúadacán, Rúadán, Ruaidrí, Ruarcc, Ruissíne, Rumann, Sáerbrethach, Scandlán, Scothíne, Seán, Sechnassach, Séigíne, Selbach, Senach, Senchán, Sétnae, Sitric, Suibne, Tadc, Tadhg, Tairdelbach, Tanaide, Tigernach, Tigernán, Tighearnán, Tipraite, Tomaltach, Tomás, Tressach, Trian, Tuathal, Uaithne, Uallgarg Female Personal Names Common: Bébinn, Der Bforgaill, Derbáil, Dubh Essa, Dubchoblaig, Eithne, Gormlaith, Mór, Muirenn, Tailltiu Standard: Ablach, Áedammair,Affraic, Aíbinn, Aideen, Aífe, Ailbe, Aileann, Ailleann, Áine, Almaith, Anga, Anlaith, Aodhnait, Aoibheann, Aróc, Barrdub, Be Bhionn, Bé Fáil, Bébhinn, Bél, Belocc, Ben Mide, Ben Muman, Bil, Brigid, Brigit, Cacht, Caillech Domnaill, Caillech Finnen, Cainnech, Caíntigern, Caírech, Catan, Cellach, Chrodoara, Ciannait, Ciar, Cingit, Clothra, Cnes, Coblaith, Cochrann, Cocrich, Cóemfhind, Coímell, Colan, Columba, Conandil, Concessa, Conchend, Conchenn, Condal, Congan, Crínóc, Cróeb, Cuach, Cumman, Dailfind, Dairine, Damhnait, Dar Cárthaind, Dearbháil, Dearbhorgaill, Dechtire, Deirdriu, Der Bforgaill, Der Draigen, Derbáil, Dercco, Derg, Dianaim, Doireand, Doirend, Dron, Dubchoblaig, Dubh, Dubh Essa, Dubh Lacha, Dubh Lemna, Dubhchobhlaigh, Dubhgilla, Dúinsech, Dúnlaith, Eabha, Eachraidh, Eadain, Echrad, Éile, Eilgri, Eithne, Elige, Ellbríg, Emer, Érennach, Ériu, Etaín, Ethne, Etromma, Euginia, Failend, Faílenn, Faimdid, Fainche, Fedelm, Feidelm, Fiathnait, Fína, Finbil, Find, Findchóem, Findétand, Findscuap, Fíne, Finnecht, Fionnabhair, Flann, Forbflaith, Fuamnach, Garb, Gelgéis, Gnathnad, Gobnait, Gormán, Gormfhlaith, Gormlaith, Ibel, Indécht, Inderb, Indiu, Íte, Lann, Lasair, Lassar, Lassi, Lathir, Lebarcham, Lerben, Lerthan, Lethann, Lí Ban, Liadan, Lígach, Luiseach, Macha, Máel Etich, Máel Fabaill, Máel Mide, Máel Muire, Martha, Medb, Meld, Mincloth, Móen, Mongfhind, Mór, Mór Muman, Muadhnait, Mugain, Muireann, Muirecht, Muirenn, Muirgel, Muiriath, Muirin, Muirne, Narbflaith, Ném, Némdaille, Nessa, Niamh, Óchae, Óebfhinn, Orlaith, Órnat, Ragnailt, Ríoghnach, Roach, Rónnait, Sadb, Sadhbh, Sáerlaith, Samthann, Saraid, Sarnat, Scathach, Scáthdercc, Sciath, Sebdann, Selblaith, Sétach, Sín, Sinech, Sithmaith, Sodelb, Sogáes, Suaibsech, Táethen, Tailefhlaith, Taileflaith, Tailltiu, Téiti, Temair, Tlachtga, Tómnat, Tuathflaith, Uaithne, Uallach, Uasal, Uathach Welsh Modern naming patterns are the same as those for English: one or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Gareth Llewellyn Jones. Welsh names overlap with English names, so a child might as easily be called William as Gwilym. The popular names among the Welsh account for a high proportion of the total, in fact, some personal and family names are so common that further identifiers are needed. If you asked for Tom Jones in a village you might be asked if you meant Jones the butcher, Jones the baker, or Jones the singer. The Welsh can go even further, identifying someone by their product rather than profession, as in Jones the fish. The Welsh did not use inheritable family names widely until the 16th century, but instead used bynames, especially patronymics: ‘ap’ (or ‘ab’ before a vowel) meant ‘son of’ and ‘verch’meant ‘daughter of’. Married women might use ‘wreic’meaning ‘wife of’. For instance, Gwilym’s son and daughter might have been known as Huw ap Gwilym and Adwyn verch Gwilym, his wife as Angharad wreic Gwilym. This could be extended to a whole lineage, although it usually stopped at the grandfather (Huw ap Male Personal Names Gwilym ab Owen). Patronymics were preserved until the late 19th century, and used at that time like middle names, so David Jones might have been known as David ap-Rhys Jones. Most family names derive from patronymics, sometimes in a combined form, with ap Hywel becoming Powell and so on. Pronunciation The Welsh language is phonetic and smooth, that is, you say all the letters, and it is lilting, not harsh. Words are stressed on the next to last syllable. In Welsh, the /i/ is always short. The /w/ is a vowel, pronounced /oo/, and the /y/ is a long /ee/ sound if it is the last syllable and closer to /uh/ otherwise. The /dd/ is a soft / th/. The /ch/ is a hiss at the back of the throat, not the hard /tch/ that starts chair. The /rh/ is simply a rough-breathing /r/ with a short, sharp breath, and the /ll/ is an /l/ said with a short, sharp breath, so it sounds a bit like a breathy /hl/. (This last was often changed to /fl/ or even /bl/ by English speakers, so that Lloyd became Floyd, for instance.) For example: Gwynedd’ is pronounced’ Goouh-neth (but Gwyneth is close enough for most), ‘Llewellyn’ is hleoo-Ehl-een, ‘Rhys’ is Rheess, ‘Gwynnllwg’is Goouhn-nhloogh. Common:Alun, Bevan, Christopher, Dafydd, Dai, Daniel, David, Dylan, Emrys, Evan, Ewen, Gruffydd, Gwilym, Huw, Ieuan, Llewellyn, Melfyn, Morgan, Owen, Rhys Standard:Alan,Aled, Alexander,Alun, Alwyn, Alyn, Ambrose, Andras, Andreas, Aneirin,Aneurin, Arthur,Arwel, Arwyn, Asaph, Awen, Benedict, Benet, Berwyn, Bevan, Blaen, Blair, Blaire, Blayre, Bleddig, Bleddyn, Bradwen, Brian, Brinley, Broderick, Bryn, Brynach, Brynley, Brynmor, Brynn, Cade, Cadel, Cadogan, Cadwgan, Caerwyn, Cai, Caradoc, Caradog, Carr, Carwyn, Catesby, Cedig, Cedric, Cedrych, Cemlyn, Ceredig, Ceri, Charles, Christopher, Cledwyn, Clyde, Clywd, Cole, Colwyn, Conwy, Cyngen, Cynstenian, Daff, Dafi, Dafydd, Dai, Daniel, Darren, David, Dei, Deian, Deiniol, Deinol, Derwyn, Dewey, Dewi, Dillan, Dillon, Dilwyn, Donat, Drew, Dru, Dryw, Dyfan, Dylan, Dynand, Edar, Eddow, Edern, Edmund, Edmwnd, Edryd, Efan, Eian, Eifion, Eignion, Eilir, Eilwyn, Elfed, Elfodd, Elgan, Elian, Elis, Ellis, Elwin, Elwyn, Elystan, Emin, Emlyn, Emrys, Eoin, Ermel, Ernan, Errol, Eryl, Euan, Eurig, Euros, Evan, Ewan, Ewen, Francis, Galvin, Garath, Gareth, Gary, Gavin, Gawain, Geoffrey, George, Geraint, Geriant, Gerlad, Gerwyn, Gethen, Gethin, Gilbert, Glendower, Glydwr, Glyn, Glynn, Gowan, Graham, Gregory, Griff, Griffid, Griffin, Griffith, Griffri, Griffry, Gruffudd, Gruffydd, Gryffid, Gryffri, Gryffry, Gryffyd, Guilam, Gwennarth, Gwilim, Gwilym, Gwin, Gwion, Gwydion, Gwylfai, Gwyn, Gwynfor, Gwynne, Hadyn, Hamon, Harri, Hefin, Hew, Heylin, Hilary, Howel, Howell, Hugh, Humphrey, Huw, Hywel, Iaco, Iago, Ian, Ianto, Idris, Idriys, Idwal, Iefan, Iestin, Iestyn, Ieuan, Ieuan Ifan, Ievan, Ifan, Ifor, Inir, Ioan, Iolo, Iorewen, Iorweth, Iowan, Isan, Ithel, Iwan, Jacob, James, Jenkin, John, Justin, Kai, Kane, Kay, Kedivor, Keith, Kened, Keneth, Kenneric, Llew, Llewelyn, Lloyd, Llud, Llyr, Llywel Llywelyn, Lowarch, Lyn, Lythan, Mabon, Maddox, Madin, Madoc, Maldwyn, Mark, Marvin, Math, Matho, Mathonwy, Matthew, Maugan, Maurice, Melfyn, Merddin, Meredith, Merfin, Meriaun, Merion, Mervin, Mervyn, Meurig, Meurik, Michael, Morfydd, Morgan, Morgant, Morven, Morvin, Morvran, Mostyn, Nai, Neddig, Nefydd, Neilyn, Neirin, Nye, Owain, Owein, Owen, Padarn, Patrick, Paul, Pedr, Penrod, Penwyn, Peredur, Peter, Pryderi, Prydwen, Pwyll, Pyr, Rees, Reese, Reis, Rhett, Rhisiart, Rhobert, Rhod, Rhodri, Rhys, Rhywallan, Richard, Robert, Roland, Rwrith, Ryryd, Samuel, Searl, Seiriol, Selwyn, Seren, Siam, Siarl, Siôn, Sionym, Siors, Steffan, Stephan, Stephen, Steven, Sulien, Sulwyn, Tad, Taff, Taffy, Talfryn, Taliesin, Tecwyn, Tewdric, Theodore, Thomas, Tom, Tomos, Trahearn, Trefor, Trevor, Tristan, Trystan, Tudor, Tudur, Tudyr, Twm, Uren, Urien, Valentine, Vaughan, Vaughn, Walter, Watkin, Wilim, William, Win,Wmffre, Wyn, Wyndod, Yago, Yestin, Yevan Female Personal Names Common: Angharad, Anwen, Bethan, Bronwen, Carys, Catrin, Claire, Delyth, Elen, Mair, Mererid, Nerys, Nesta, Nicola, Olwen, Rhiain, Rhonda, Sarah, Sian, Wynne Standard: Adain, Aderyn, Adwen, Aeronwen, Alison, Alys, Amanda, Angharad, Ann, Anna, Annest, Annwyl, Anwen, Anwyl, Aranwen, Arian, Ariana, Arianwen, Arwenna, Arwyn, Aylwen, Barbara, Beatrice, Bethan, Betrys, Blanceflor, Blodwen, Blodwin, Blodwyn, Brangwen, Branwen, Briant, Bronwen, Brynn, Cadi, Cari, Caris, Carol, Caron, Caryl, Carys, Cate, Cath, Cati, Catrin, Ceinwen, Ceinwin, Ceri, Cerys, Christine, Ciara, Claire, Clarisse, Cordelia, Corry, Deborah, Del, Delia, Delwen, Delwin, Delwyn, Delyth, Deryn, Dierdre, Dylis, Dyllis, Eifiona, Eiluned, Eira, Eiralys, Eirawyn, Eirian, Eiriol, Eirlys, Eirwen, Elaine, Elen, Eleri, Elin, Eluned, Emma, Enfys, Enid, Enit, Ermin, Essyllt, Ffion, Gaenor, Gaynor, Gemma, Gladys, Glenda, Glenys, Glynis, Guenevere, Guinevere, Gwen, Gwenda, Gwendolen, Gwendolyn, Gwenevere, Gwenhwyfar, Gwenllian, Gwenlliana, Gwladys, Gwyneth, Hafwen, Helen, Heulwen, Hywela, Idelle, Iestin, Iola, Isolde, Jacqueline, Jane, Janet, Jennifer, Jestina, Joanne, Julie, Justina, Karen, Katharine, Kelly, Laura, Lewelyth, Linda, Lisa, Llewelydd, Llinos, Llio, Llion, Lona, Lora, Lowri, Lowry, Lynwen, Mabli, Maelona, Mai, Maillt, Mair, Mairona, Mairwen, Mali, Marared, Mared, Margaid, Margaret, Marged, Maud, Mega, Megan, Meghan, Meira, Meiriona, Meirionwen, Meironwen, Meleri, Meredith, Mererid, Meriel, Morgan, Morwen, Morwenna, Myfanawy, Myfanwy, Myfi, Myfina, Nerys, Nest, Nesta, Nia, Nicola, Olwen, Owena, Patricia, Petra, Rachel, Rebecca, Rhiain, Rhian, Rhiannon, Rhianwen, Rhona, Rhonda, Rhonwen, Rhosyn, Ronwen, Rowena, Sarah, Seren, Sharon, Sian, Siani, Sioned, Siwan, Susan, Taffia, Taffine, Tegwen, Tracey, Vanora, Victoria, Vivian, Viviane, Vivianne, Viviene, Vivienne, Wenda, Winnifred, Wynne, Ysbail, Yseult Family Names Common: Davies, Edwards, Evans, Griffiths, Harris, Hughes, James, Jenkins, Jones, Lewis, Lloyd, Morgan, Morris, Owen, Phillips, Price, Rees, Roberts, Thomas, Williams Standard:Abadam,Abernethy,Abethell, Abraham, Adams, Adda, Alban, Allen, Andrews, Annwyl, Anthony,Anwell, Anwill, Anwyl, Arnold, Arthur, Ash, Ashe, Ashton, Astley,Aston, Atha, Aubrey,Austin, Awbrey, Babb, Babbs, Bach, Badham, Balch, Barry, Batch, Bateman, Batha, Bathoe, Baugh, Baughan, Bawn, Bayliss, Baynham, Beach, Beavan, Bebb, Beddoe, Beddoes, Bedow, Bedward, Bedwards, Beedle, Beethel, Beinon, Bellis, Benbough, Benbow, Bengough, Bengrisse, Bengry, Benjamin, Bennet, Bennett, Bennion, Bethall, Bethell, Bevan, Bevans, Beynam, Beynon, Bibb, Bidder, Binnell, Binner, Bithell, Blaeney, Blaeny, Blayney, Blood, Bloyd, Blud, Bolt, Bolter, Bolver, Bolvier, Bond, Bonsall, Boulter, Bound, Bowdler, Bowen, Bown, Brace, Breese, Breeze, Brickstock, Bridgestock, Broderick, Bron, Brook, Brooks, Brown, Brun, Bryn, Bryse, Bryste, Bunnell, Bunner, Button, Bydder, Byddir, Bynyr, Bythell, Byther, Caddick, Caddock, Cadwalader, Cadwalidwr, Caentwn, Caffyn, Cardiff, Cardigan, Carduggan, Carew, Caunton, Charles, Clayton, Cleaton, Clement, Cletton, Coade, Cole, Connick, Conway, Conwy, Coslett, Cosslett, Craddock, Creese, Crichett, Cronne, Crowther, Crunn, Cule, Cull, Dackins, Dai, Daniel, Daniels, Daukyn, Davenold, David, Davies, Davis, Dawes, Dawkins, Dawson, Daykin, Daykyn, Deakyn, Dee, Devenallt, Devonald, Dew, Dodd, Duggan, Dykins, Eddow, Edmunds, Edwards, Elias, Elis, Ellice, Ellis, Emanuel, Emont, Ethell, Evan, Evans, Eynion, Felix, Fennah, Fenner, Flood, Foulkes, Gadarn, Gainor, George, Gethin, Gething, Gibb, Gibbon, Gibbs, Gibby, Giles, Gittings, Gittins, Gittoes, Goch, Goff, Gogh, Goodge, Goodin, Goodwin, Goodwyn, Goudge, Gough, Gravenor, Greenaway, Greenhow, Gregory, Griffies, Griffin, Griffis, Griffith, Griffiths, Gronow, Gruffydd, Grunna, Grunnah, Guilt, Guy, Gwatkin, Gwenlan, Gwilliam, Gwilt, Gwinnett, Gwyn, Gwynett, Gwynn, Gwynne, Gwyther, Haggar, Haines, Hamer, Harries, Harris, Harry, Hatfeld, Hatfield, Havard, Hendry, Henry, Henrys, Herbert, Herward, Heyns, Hier, Hillin, Hodgkin, Hoel, Hoell, Hoells, Hoesgyn, Hole, Holl, Hopkin, Hopkins, Hoskin, Hoskins, Hoskyn, How, Howard, Howel, Howell, Howells, Howes, Hughes, Humphrey, Humphreys, Husband, Huws, Hyer, Hywel, Iefan, Ifan, Isans, Ithel, Jacob, Jacobs, James, Jankin, Jarman, Jarrett, Jarvis, Jefferson, Jeffreys, Jenkins, Jervis, Jevon, Jevons, Job, John, Johns, Jones, Joseph, Kedwards, Keffin, Kendrick, Kent, Kenvin, Kethin, Kiffin, Kinsey, Lacharn, Lagharn, Lawrence, Lewis, Leyshon, Llewellen, Llewellin, Llewellyn, Llowarch, Lloyd, Lloyds, Lodwick, Lougher, Loyd, Loyn, Lucas, Mabe, Maddock, Maddox, Maddy, Madock, Madox, Mady, Mansel, Manuel, Martin, Mason, Mathews, Mathias, Matthew, Matthews, Maurice, Mayberry, Maybery, Mayn, Means, Mellens, Melling, Meredith, Merrick, Methuen, Meyler, Meyrick, Michael, Miles, Mill, Mills, Milo, Morgan, Morris, Morse, Morys, Mostyn, Moyle, Nanney, Narbett, Nash, Nevet, Newell, Nichol, Nicholas, Nicholls, Noke, Nuttall, Oakley, Obray, Onions, Owain, Owen, Owens, Paish, Parker, Parry, Paskin, Paul, Pearce, Pearse, Pearson, Peat, Peate, Pendry, Pennant, Peregrine, Perkin, Perkins, Perkyn, Peters, Phelps, Phillips, Philpin, Picton, Pierce, Popkin, Popkins, Powell, Powelson, Powys, Preddy, Predith, Preece, Price, Prichard, Prickett, Pritchard, Pritchett, Probart, Probert, Probyn, Propert, Prosser, Protheroe, Prydderch, Prys, Pryse, Prytherch, Pugh, Pullin, Pumphrey, Pyrs, Quilt, Radclyffe, Raglan, Reece, Rees, Reynold, Reynolds, Rhiann, Rhydderch, Rhys, Rice, Richards, Rickard, Rickett, Roberts, Robin, Roderick, Rogers, Rosier, Rosser, Rothero, Rowland, Rowlands, Ruddock, Ruther, Rynallt, Rynalt, Saer, Sais, Salbri, Salebiri, Salmon, Salusbury, Sambrook, Sambroth, Samrook, Samuel, Samwell, Sandbrook, Sayce, Sayers, Says, Sayvage, Seys, Sheen, Sheldon, Simons, Smith, Smooth, Stephens, Stevens, Stradling, Swancott, Tanat, Tannatt, Tarvin, Taylor, Teague, Tegan, Tegg, Tegue, Tew, Thomas, Tibbett, Tibbetts, Tibbitt, Tibbot, Timothy, Tither, Treffgarne, Treharne, Trevor, Trewent, Tucker, Tudor, Tugh, Turner, Upjohn, Uprichard, Vain, Vallant, Vane, Vaughan, Wace, Walters, Wardlow, Warlow, Warren, Waters, Watkins, Watkiss, Watt, Watts, Weaver, Welch, Welling, Wellins, Welsh, Whittal, Wild, Wilding, Williams, Willis, Wilson, Withers, Wogan, Woosencroft, Worthing, Wyn, Wynn, Wynne, Young Medieval Welsh In medieval times, personal names only were used, and bynames names should you need more. There were variants of most if needed, especially patronymics. The distribution of personal names (Rhiryd, Ririd, Ryryd, Rerid, Ryrid). English names became names also differed: a typical selection has been included. You more frequent from the 14th century. can supplement these with Medieval English or rarer Old Welsh Male Personal Names Common:Adam, Cynwrig, David, Einion, Gronw, Gwyn, Ieuan, Iorwerth, Ithel, Madog Standard:Adaf,Adam, Bleddyn, Cadwgan, Cydifor, Cyfnerth, Cynddelw, Cynwrig, David, Deheuwynt, Ednowain, Ednyfed, Einion, Griffri, Gronw, Gruffydd, Gwasdewi, Gwilim, Gwion, Gwogan, Gwrgenau, Gwyn, Heilyn, Hwfa, Hywel, Iago, Idnerth, Ieuaf, Ieuan, Ifor, Iocyn, Iorwerth, Ithel, John, Llygad, Llywarch, Llywelyn, Madog, Madyn, Maredudd, Meilyr, Meurig, Morfran, Moriddig, Philip, Rhiryd, Rhys, Robert, Seisyll, Tegwared, Thomas, Trahaearn, Tuder, William, Ynyr Female Personal Names Common:Angharad, Dyddgu, Generys, Gwenhwyfar, Gwenllian, Gwerfyl, Gwladus, Lleucu, Morfudd, Tangwystl Standard:Alice,Alicia,Angharad,Angharat, Dyddgu, Erdudfyl, Eva, Eve, Ewerich, Generys, Geneth, Genilles, Gwen, Gwenhwyfar, Gwenllian, Gwerfyl, Gwerydd, Gwir, Gwladus, Gwledyr, Helen, Hunydd, Iwerydd, Joan, Katherine, Leweke, Lleucu, Llewelydd, Mabel, Mabilia, Madrun, Margaret, Mary, Milisandia, Millicent, Morfudd, Morfyl, Morwith, Myfanwy, Nest, Perweur,Tangwystl, Tudgech, Wentliana, Wervela, Wledyr Briton (Old Welsh) The Britons were the part of the first wave of Celts to settle in knights were Arthwr,Amren, Bedwyr, Cadwyr, Cai, Caradoc, Britain. They adopted few Roman or biblical names despite Drydvas, Ederyn, Gadwy, Geraint, Gurhyr, Gwilim, Gwynn, Gwyr, centuries of Roman rule and the adoption of Christianity. They Iona, Kilwich, Kynon, Meneu, Odyaw, Owein, Riogoned, Sel, resisted the invading Anglo-Saxons and Danes, but were pushed Trystan. Merlin was added to the tales at a later date; his name back to Wales and Cornwall. Some migrated to Armorica inGaul, would have been Myrddin (which derives from a place-name). which then became Brittany. It is from the Britons that the legends of King Arthur arose. Personal names only were used, and bynames if needed, especially patronymics, which in this period were of the form The Old Welsh name forms are used here, and can be pro-‘ap-’ meaning ‘son of’and ‘merch’ meaning ‘daughter of’. nounced pretty much as for modern Welsh, although the Einion’s son and daughter might have been known as Hael ap.consonants might have been harder in early times. We are used Einion and Adwyn merch Einion. to different spelling, but in the original, Arthur and some of his Male Personal Names Aedd, Aelhaearn, Aeron, Afan, Afon, Amhar, Amlawdd, Amren, Anarand,Anarawd, Aneirin, Angwyn, Anian, Anwas, Anwyl, Arllechwedd, Arthawd, Arthien,Arthwr,Arvel, Auryn,Auwyn, Avaon, Barri, Bedrawd, Bedwin, Bedwor, Bedwyr, Berwyn, Blaen, Blathaon, Bleddyn, Bledri, Bradwen, Bran, Brathach, Brychan, Bryn, Brynmor, Brys, Cadarn, Cadawg, Cadel, Cadellin, Cadfael, Cadfan, Cadlew, Cadoc, Cadreith, Cadwaladr, Cadwallon, Cadwgawn, Cadwr, Cadwyr, Cai, Caradoc, Caradog, Carannog, Carantoc, Carnedyr, Caw, Cedifor, Celyn, Cenwyn, Ceredig, Ceri, Cerwyn, Cian, Cledwyn, Clydog, Clywd, Coed, Coel, Collen, Corryn, Culhwch, Culvanawd, Custennin, Cynan, Cynbel, Cyndeyrn, Cynfan, Cynfarch, Cynfor, Cyngar, Cynhaern, Cynog, Cynrain, Cynwal, Dallwyr, Derwyn, Digon, Dilwyn, Doged, Dremidydd, Drwst, Drych, Drydvas, Dryw, Duach, Dyfan, Dyfrig, Dylan, Dynand, Dywel, Edenewen, Edern, Ederyn, Eidiol, Eidyn, Einion, Eivyonydd, Elfed, Elfodd, Elphin, Elwyn, Elystan, Emhyr, Emyr,Ergyryad, Ermid, Eurosswydd, Evnissyen, Evrei, Ffernfael, Fflam, Fflergant, Fflewdwr, Ffodor, Gadwy, Ganfael, Garanhir, Garanwyn, Garym, Geraint, Gerwyn, Gethin, Gildas, Glewlwyd, Glyndwer, Glywys, Gogyvwlch, Goreu, Govan, Granwen, Gronw, Gruffin, Gruffudd, Gruffydd, Guital, Gurhyr, Gwalchmei, Gwawl, Gwern, Gwilim, Gwion, Gwitart, Gwyar, Gwyddno, Gwydion, Gwyglet, Gwynfardd, Gwynn, Gwyr, Gwythyr, Heilyn, Hwfa, Hyfaidd, Hywel, Iddawg, Idenerth, Idnerth, Idris, Idwal, Illtyd, Iona, Iorwerth, Iowerth, Ithel, Kelyn, Kilwich, Kilydd, Kynon, Kynwyl, Laodegan, Lleu, Lleufer, Lloyd, Lludd, Llwydeu, Llygad, Llyr, Llywarch, Llywelyn, Mabon, Mabsant, Madern, Madoc, Maelgwn, Maelon, Maelwys, Mahel, March, Math, Mawr, Medyr, Meilyr, Meneu, Meredydd, Merfyn, Meriawn, Mewan, Morcan, Myrddin, Naw, Nennoc, Nerth, Nerthach, Nissyen, Nudd, Odyar, Odyaw, Olwydd, Onllwyn, Owein, Padarn, Peissawg, Pendaran, Peredur, Pryderi, Pwyll, Ren, Rhain, Rheged, Rhinfrew, Rhodri, Rhun, Rhyawdd, Rhydderch, Rhys, Riogoned, Sedwei, Seithennin, Sel, Selyf, Senyllt, Sugyn, Sulgen, Sulien, Syvwlch, Talfryn, Taliesin, Tarrant, Tegvan, Tegwared, Teilo, Teregud, Teryrnon, Trahaearn, Treman, Trevelyan, Tringad, Trystan, Tudur, Tudwal, Tungyr, Twrgadarn, Tywysog, Uchdryd, Urien, Uther, Varwawc, Vychan, Wadu, Wynn, Ysgawyn, Ystrwyth Female Personal Names Aanor, Aderyn, Adsiltia, Adwen, Aeronwy,Agharat, Almedha, Angharad, Angharat, Angwen, Anwyl, Aregwedd, Arianwen, Badellfawr, Belisama, Blodeuwedd, Blodeyn, Blodwen, Brandgaine, Brangwirin, Branwen, Brisen, Cain, Canda, Ceinwen, Ceri, Cigfa, Coalaulin, Cordula, Coulava, Creiddylad, Creirwy, Darerca, Druantia, Dwynwen, Eiddwen, Eira, Eiralys, Eirian, Eirianwen, Eirlys, Eiron, Eirwen, Eirwyn, Eleri, Elin, Ellylw, Eluned, Elwy, Elwyn, Eneuawy, Enid, Ennogen, Enrhydreg, Eoghania, Erdudfyl, Esyllt, Eurfron, Eurneid, Eurwen, Ewaesdah, Eysllt, Flamina, Ganieda, Gawrddyd, Goewin, Goleuddydd, Goleudid, Guaur, Gwefr, Gwen, Gwenddyd, Gwendolyn, Gwendydd, Gweneal, Gwenever, Gwenhifar, Gwenhwyfar, Gwenhywach, Gwenledyr, Gwenllian, Gwenlliant, Gwennol, Gwenog, Gwladys, Gwledyr, Gwlithyn, Gwylfai, Hafren, Hafwen, Heulwen, Igerna, Indeg, Innogen, Lanshuil, Llinos, Luned, Lynwen, Mabyn, Maelona, Malvina, Mederei, Medhuil, Medlan, Meinwen, Melangell, Meleri, Methahel, Modwen, Morfudd, Morgant, Morved, Morwenna, Nest, Neued, Nimue, Nona, Olwen, Penarddun, Rathtyen, Regau, Rhawn, Rhedyn, Rhiain, Rhiannon, Rhianwen, Rhonwen, Rhoswen, Saeth, Sirona, Suilaliun, Sulwyn, Taghwystyl, Tancoystl, Tangustel, Tangwen, Tegan, Tegau, Tegwen, Teleri, Telyn, Yseult medieval english bynames In the Middle Ages, an aristocrat might use his personal name in full, but a worker in the fields with the same name would normally be known by a pet form of that name - something shorter or homelier like Bett, Coll, Daw, Geff, Gibb, Grigg, Hobb, Hudd, Hykke, Jakke, Judd, Lorkyn, Symm, Tebb, Thomm, Watt, or Will (variously spelled). The short version of a name was usually its first syllable, perhaps altered by dropping or changing a letter or two to make it easier to say. Thus, David, Gilbert, Theobald, and Walter gave Daw, Gibb, Tebb, and Watt. This abbreviation might then varied by (loose) rhyme. Robert gave Rob, then Hob, Hop, Dob, Nob, even Nab. Richard gave Rick, then Dick, Hick, Hitch, Higg, and Rigg; Roger gave Rodge, Hodge, Dodge, and Dod. Such names were so closely yoked to the peasantry that Hob, Hick, and Hodge became synonymous with rustic countrymen. To such short forms could be added the diminutive and familiar suffixes of the time: -el, -et, -in, -on, -ot, .kin, and -cock; the last chiefly for cocky serving lads, but the rest for both sexes. For instance, Tebb gave Tebbet, Tibbel, and so on, John gave Jankin, and Rob gave Robin (which was popular enough to become a name in its own right). Two suffixes could be used, as in Hobelot or Hewlet (Hugh + el + et). Aname might be further altered, so Simkin became Simpkin, and Jankin was cut down again to Jack. At times, a later syllable might be picked out, so Matilda became not only Maude, but Till, Tillet, Tillot, and so on. Sometimes, a whole name might be changed, so William (+ ot) gave Wilmot. Henry gave Harry (as well as Hal) because the English pronounced it like that, trying to copy the Norman French pronounciation. There was no formal system; the process was spontaneous and names followed fashion. Possible abbreviations and pet names are not listed. You can construct them based on the suffix list and examples above. (Some modern short forms, such as Bill, Bob, Ned, and Ted, were not used in the Middle Ages, although this shouldn’t matter much in a fantasy world.) Many such names survived through surnames, so you can also work back from the later lists of patronymics and metronymics. Despite the many pet forms of names (for instance, the Williams in a village might be known as as Will, Wilcock, Willett, Wilkin, Wilmot, and so on), there still could be many folk with the same name, so bynames were used to tell them apart. Bynames Despite the many pet forms of names (for instance, the Williams in a village might be know as Will, Wilcock, Willett, Wilkin, Wilmot, and so on) there still could be many folkwith the same name, so bynames were used to tell them apart. Bynames have the same general patterns the world over, although proportions of the various types differ. The information for Medieval England provided here can be extrapolated to other cultures, with suitable changes. Bynames can be roughly divided into four groups depending on their source: locality, relationship, occupation, and nickname. There is some overlap. One could have bynames for different occasions, using a locality-name only outside one’s home town, and so on. Sometimes, the person will establish the byname type used - for example, a noble would usually refer to his estates, a youth to his kin, a smith to his craft. In medieval times, these temporary bynames described the bearer’s origin, trade, and so on as needed; later, some became fixed family names, and lost any direct link. (Some occupations ran in families, though, so a family name might well be an occupational name too.) Important figures (high-ranking nobility and clergy) should be dealt with individually. To choose a random type for the rest, roll d% and consult the Bynames table. Table 2-1; Bynames  D%  NameType  Examples (name + byname)  01-38  Locality  Will o’the Greene,  Rohesia of Oakton  39-71  Relationship  Tom Wilkinson, Meg Gregg’s  72-87  Occupation  Watt the Miller, Marion Baxter  88-00  Nickname  Jack Brown, Bella Fairchild  The bynames may be used in long or short form as you see fit (Will o’the Greene or Will Greene, Tom Wilkin’s son or Tom Wilkins, and so on). The convenient shorter form usually ended up as the family name. Locality Circumstances can dictate the locality used. A villager at home common names, though, come from general features found might use the name of a local landmark (atte oake), but in a town everywhere. For instance, every village had a green, and or city would use the name of his village. Foreigners could be someone was bound to live by it, so Green is the most numerous called by the name of their country or nationality. The most of those. Common: Bridge, Brook, Field, Ford, Green, Grove, Hall, Heath, Hill, Holmes, Lane, Lee, Marsh, Mead, Mill, Moor, North, Well, West, Wood Some variants: Bridge (Bridges, Briggs), Brook (Brooke, Brookes, Brooks), Field (Fields), Ford (Foord), Green (Greene), Grove (Groves, Grave, Graves, Greave), Hill (Hills), Lee (Lea, Leigh, Lees, Ley), Mill (Mills), Moor (Moore), North (Norris), Well (Wells), Wood (Woods). Standard:Acres, Ash,Ashcroft, Ashley, Banks, Beck, Birdwood, Blackwood, Booth, Botham, Bottom, Bridge, Bridges, Briggs, Broadway, Broadwood, Brook, Brooke, Brookes, Brooks, Burn, Bygraves, Castle, Cave, Chalk, Cherry, Church, Clay, Cliff, Close, Coombe, Cottage, Crabbe, Croft, Cross, Dale, Dean, Dell, Down, Elm, Field, Fields, Foord, Ford, Garth, Geenway, Grave, Graves, Greave, Green, Greene, Gretwood, Grisewood, Grove, Groves, Hall, Harwood, Heath, Hill, Hills, Hoarwood, Hole, Holloway, Holmes, House, Hurst, Lake, Lane, Lea, Lee, Lees, Leigh, Ley, Littlewood, Low, Marsh, Mead, Meadow, Mear, Mere, Mill, Mills, Moor, Moore, Mudge, Myer, Nash, Nelmes, Nokes, Norris, North, Oak, Oakley, Overbury, Pightle, Pitt, Plumtree, Pool, Poole, Pound, Radcliff, Redcliffe, Rhod, Rhodes, Rhok, Ridge, Ridgeway, Rivers, Road, Rountree, Royd, Rugge, Sands, Say, Shore, Stock, Stocks, Stone, Stream, Stubbs, Style, Sutcliffe, Sweetapple, Thorndyke, Thorne, Thornley, Thorpe, Thwaite, Townrow, Townsend, Travers, Travis, Tree, Underwood, Vale, Walk, Waters, Weare, Weir, Well, Wells, West, Wood, Woodrow, Woods Other locality names comprise less common words for streams, meadows, woods, hills, and so on. There would also be large numbers of place names from specific towns, counties, rivers, and the like. If you have a medieval map or detailed campaign setting, you can use existing place names. Otherwise see the place names section for lists of elements, and ways to combine them (together with any fantastic components you may want) to make suitable compound place names and bynames. Phrases could become names, with prepositions or parts of them staying stuck to the main words: ‘by water’ became Bywater, ‘atte wood’ became Atwood, ‘atte gate’ became Agate, ‘atten elm’ became Nelmes, and so on. Note that the English happily stuck ‘s’ on the end of a surname at the drop of a hat; it didn’t have to be plural or possessive. Relationship Most relationship bynames were patronymics based on popular such bynames are listed after the base names below, to save you names, with the rest either metronymics or patronymics based on going through the process of creating them. old Anglo-Saxon names. If your father were called Adam, say, Byname Type your byname might be Adam’s son or Adam’s (Adamson, d10 Type Adams); sometimes just Adam. There were a lot of pet names 1-8 Patronymics, used among the peasantry, so relationship bynames derived 9 Metronymics, from those more homely forms were plentiful. The more frequent 10 Old Patronymics. Patronymics: Adam: Adams, Adamson, Adcock, Addis, Addison, Addy, Adkins, Aitken, Aitkens, Atkins, Atkinson. Alan:Alcock, Allan, Allanson, Allen, Alleyn, Allinson. Alexander: Sanders, Sanderson, Saunders, Saunderson. Andrew: Anderson, Andrews, Drewitt. Bartholomew: Barthelmy, Bartle, Bartlett, Bartley, Batcock, Bate, Bateman, Bates, Batt, Batten, Batty, Betts, Tolley. Benedict: Bennett, Bennison, Benson. David: Dakins, Davidson, Davis, Davison, Davy, Daw, Dawe, Dawes, Dawkins, Dawson, Day, Dowson, Dyson. Edward: Edison, Edkins, Edwards. Elias: Elliman, Elliot, Ellis, Ellison. Geoffrey: Geffers, Geffin, Jeffcock, Jeffcot, Jefferey, Jefferies, Jefferson, Jeffs, Jepp, Jepson. Gerald, Gerard: Garrard, Garratt, Garrett, Garrod, Jarred, Jarrett, Jerrold. Gilbert: Gibbons, Gibbs, Gibby, Gibson, Gilbertson, Gilbey. Gregory: Greer, Gregg, Greggs, Gregson, Greig, Grier, Grierson, Grigg, Griggs, Grigson. Hamo: Hambling, Hamlet, Hamlyn, Hammett, Hammond, Hampson. Harvey: Harveson, Harvie, Hervey. Henry: Harriman, Harris, Harrison, Hawkins, Henderson. Howard: Heward, Hewart, Howerd. Hugh: Hewes, Hewitson, Hewlet, Hewson, How, Howes, Howkins, Hudson, Huggett, Huggins, Hughes, Hullet, Hullis, Huson, Hutchings, Hutchins, Hutchinson. Humphrey: Humphreys, Humphriss. Jacob: Jacobi, Jacobs, Jacobson. James: Jameson, Jamieson, Jemmet. John: Hancock, Hankin, Hanks, Hanson, Jackman, Jacks, Jackson, Jaggs, Janes, Jenkins, Jenkinson, Jennings, Jinks, Johns, Johnson. Laurence: Larkin, Lawrence, Lawrenson, Lawrie, Laws, Lawson, Lowry. Martin: Martell, Martens, Martinet, Martinson. Matthew: Makins, Makinson, Mathieson, Matson, Matt, Matthews, Mattin, Matts, May, Maycock, Mayhew. Maurice: Morrice, Morris, Morrison, Morse, Morson. Nicholas: Colletts, Collins, Collis, Collison, Nichols, Nicholson, Nickells, Nicks, Nickson, Nicols, Nicolson, Nixon. Nigel: Neal, Neald, Neale, Neilson, Nell, Nelson. Pagan: Pain, Paine, Pannell, Payne. Peter: Parkin, Parkinson, Parks, Parr, Parritt, Pearman, Pears, Pearse, Pearson, Perkins, Perks, Perrin, Perrot, Peters, Peterson, Petrie, Pierce. Philip: Filkins, Phelps, Phillips, Phillipson, Philpotts, Phipps, Potts. Ralph: Hands, Hawling, Rafe, Ralfs, Ralphs, Rand, Randall, Randle, Randolph, Rands, Rankin, Ransome, Ranson, Rawle, Rawlings, Rawlins, Rawlinson, Rawson, Relph, Rendell, Rolfe. Reynald: Rennell, Rennie, Reynolds. Richard: Dickens, Dickinson, Dicks, Diggens, Dixon, Hickie, Hickie, Hicks, Hickson, Higgins, Higgs, Hignett, Hitchcock, Hitchens, Richards, Richardson, Ricketts, Ricks, Rickson, Rigg, Riggs, Rix, Rixon. Robert: Dabbs, Dobb, Dobbie, Dobbs, Dobie, Hobart, Hobbs, Hobson, Hopkins, Hopkinson, Nobbs, Robbie, Robbins, Robens, Roberts, Robertson, Robey, Robins, Robinson, Ronson. Roger: Dodd, Dodds, Dodge, Dodgson, Dodson, Hodge, Hodges, Hodgett, Hodgkin, Hodgkinson, Hodgson, Hodson, Hotchkiss, Rogers, Rogerson. Simon: Simcox, Simmonds, Simmons, Simpkiss, Simpson, Sims, Symes, Symonds. Stephen: Stenson, Stephens, Stephenson, Stevens, Stevenson, Stimson. Thomas: Tamlin, Tampling, Thomason, Thompson, Thoms, Tombs, Tompkins, Toms, Tomsett, Tonkins, Tonks. Walter: BOOK OF NAMES 50 Walters, Waters, Waterson, Watkins, Watkinson, Watkiss, Watson, Watts. William: Gillam, Gillet, Mott, Wilcock, Wilcocks, Wilcox, Wilkie, Wilkin, Wilkinson, Willet, Williamson, Willis, Wills, Wilmot, Wilson. Metronymics: Agatha: Agasson, Aggas, Tagg. Agnes: Annett, Annis, Annison, Anson. Alice: Allis, Allison. Amabella: Mab, Mabel, Mappin, Mobb, Moppets. Amicia: Ames, Amies, Amis, Amison. Barbara: Babb, Babbitt, Babbs, Babcock, Barbary. Beatrice: Beaton, Beattie, Beeton. Cassandra: Case, Cash, Cass, Casson. Cecily: Sisley, Sisson. Christina: Christie, Kitts. Constance: Cuss, Cussans, Cust, Custance. Edith: Eade, Eadie, Eady, Eddis, Eddison, Eden. Eleanor: Ellen, Ellinor, Ellins, Elson, Nelson. Elizabeth: Bethell, Bithell, Lilley. Emma: Emmett, Emms, Empson. Eve: Eaves, Eves, Eveson, Evetta. Guinevere: Gaynor, Gwenore. Isabel: Ibbot, Ibbotson, Ibbs, Ibson, Isbell, Libby, Nibbs, Niblett, Tibbot, Tibbs. Iseult: Isitt, Izod, Izot , Izzard, Izzet. Ismenia: Emeny, Imeny. Joan: Hancock, Hankin, Hanks, Hanson, Jackman, Jacks, Jackson, Jaggs, Janes, Jenkins, Jenkinson, Jennings, Jinks, Johns, Johnson. Joyce: Joicey, Joy. Juliana: Gill, Gillet, Gilson, Jewett, Jill, Jillson, Jolyan, Jowett, Julyan. Katherine: Catlin, Caton, Cattell, Cattling, Kitson, Kittson. Lettice: Leeson, Letson, Lett, Letts, Letty. Lucy: Luce, Lucey. Mabel: Mabb, Mabbett, Mabbot, Mabbs, Mabley, Mably, Mabson, Mapp, Mappin, Mobbs. Magdalen: Maddison, Maudling. Margaret: Madgett, Maggs, Magson, Margerison, Margery, Margetson, Margetts, Meggeson, Meggs, Moggs, Pegson, Poggs. Mary: Malleson, Mallett, Marion, Maris, Marriott, Marrison, Marryat, Mollison. Matilda: Maude, Maudson, Mault, Mawson, Mold, Mould, Tillett, Tilley, Tillotson, Tillson, Tilly. Muriel: Merrell, Merrill, Murrells. Petronella: Parnell, Purnell. Rosamund: Rosamond, Rosemann, Rosomond. Rohesia: Rose, Royce. Sibyl: Sibbet, Sibbs, Sibley, Sibson. Theophania: Tiffany, Tiffin. Old Patronymics: Rather than listing possible derivatives here, see the Anglo-Saxon section for details of those names. Generate a few common ones, then simplify the spelling as roughly as you like - medieval folk weren’t fussy, and dialects could lead to a variety of pronunciations. For instance,Aelfheah might give a patronymic like Affleck, Elphick, or Elvidge; Cynebeald might give Cobbold or Cutbill. Occupation Bynames of this type will be fixed by the character’s occupation or perhaps status. People using them would often have some skill or equipment that was important in the medieval world. You could assign occupations from these lists if you lack detailed encounter tables - the lists are broadly grouped according to locale and function, but are neither exclusive nor exhaustive. People from almost any sort of calling might be met within a medieval city or on the road. Some occupations were more common than others: every village, manor, keep, and castle had its Smith, Wright, Tailor, and Clerk.An early medieval village would likely have a mill, a communal bakehouse, a smithy, and a church. Most villages would also boast an inn and a few craftsmen. Craftsmen and dealers would be found in towns, and would be more frequent and specialised in large towns and cities. Your game setting may give numbers and details for occupa.tions; a book on medieval life might describe them in full. A few less obvious medieval occupations are explained here. Names also changed meaning over time. Bond, for instance, meant free farmer in old English; after the Conquest it came to mean unfree bondsman. Knight and yeoman both initially meant a youth: in medieval times, yeoman came to mean foot soldier and knight mounted soldier; afterwards yeoman meant farmer and knight country gentleman. There were many synonyms (and spellings) for most occupa.tions, sometimes English and Norman French words for the same thing: Reeve, Bailiff; Woodward, Forester; Kemp, Champion. A product, tool, or workplace could double as a job title - Mustard for a spice seller, Shears for a tailor, Hall for a servant at the castle or manor. The common English ending -er could be applied to almost any word to describe a related profession - Baker, Fisher, Hunter, Parker, Wheeler, Tiler, Butler, and so on. Note that ‘wright’ meant maker (‘smith’ could be used in this sense too), ‘ward’ meant guard, ‘monger’ meant seller or dealer, and ‘man’ usually meant servant, but could mean dealer. A Harper might make, sell, or play a harp. A Cheesewright would make cheeses, and a Cheeseman would sell them. Common: Bailey, Baker, Carter, Chapman, Clerk, Cook, Cooper, Fisher, Hunter, Knight, Marshall, Miller, Parker, Smith, Taylor, Turner, Walker, Warden, Weaver, Wright Farm and Village: Labourers. Farm hand (retainer, follower): Mann, Hine, Hind, Swain. Cotter, Cotterell (lived in cote or cottage), Tennant. Ploughman, Plowman, Tiller. Independent house-owner: Bond, Frankelyn, Franklin, Freeborn, Freeman, Fry, Husband, Husbandman, Yeoman. Tended/drove beasts: Best, Bester, Driver, Heard, Herder, Hird, Hurd. Forward, Hogarth, Hoggard, Hogger, Swineherd. Bullard, Buller, Calver, Calvert, Coward (cow-herd), Oxer. Ewart (ewe-herd), Lambert, Shearer, Shepherd, Sheppard. Woodcutter: Hacker, Hackman, Hackwood, Sawyer, Wood, Woodman. Reeder. Trapper: Ferreter, Ratoner, Ratter (rats); Toddman, Todhunter (foxes); Trainer, Trapp. Craftsmen. Spinner, Spinster. Weaver, Webb, Webber, Webster. Brewer, Brewster, Broster. Mellor, Mill, Miller, Milliard, Mills, Millward, Millyard, Milner, Mulliner, Mylne. Bacchus, Backer, Backhouse, Baker, Bakester, Baxter. Blacksmith, Faber, Farrar, Farrer, Farrow, Feaver, Ferrar, Ferrier, Smith, Smithers, Smythe. Wright, Carpenter. Millwright. Officials. Hayward, Haywood, Heywood. Bailiff: Bailey, Baillie, Bayley, Bayliss, Greaves, Grieve, Reeve, Reeves. Constable. Catchpole. Farmer. Watchman: Ward, Warde, Warden, Warder. A Reeder cut reeds for thatching. Brewers brewed mead (the most potent), wine, ale (the usual medieval drink), and beer; all the beverages were probably safer than water, and none was kept beyond the next harvest. A country Smith would make and repair all metalwork up to and including chain mail. A Millwright travelled around, setting and fixing village millstones (a skilled job). A Hayward guarded enclosures, preventing cattle from straying and eating the crops (people tilled individual strips in common fields). A Constable assisted the Reeve in court. A Catchpole seized poultry by way of tax. Farmer originally meant an agent who farmed out land to tenants and collected rent from them. Church and Learning: Chaplain, Chaplin, Caplin, Caplan. Priest, Press. Pressman, Prescot, Pressley, Pressland. Parson. Parsons, Vickers, Viccars, Vickery, Vickerman. Friar: Frere, Fryer. Monk. Monks, Monkhouse, Monkman. Nunn. Palmer. Pilgrim, Peagrim, Pegram. Clark, Clarke, Clerk, Dean, Doctor, Latimer, Latner, Master, Warden. Proctor. Manuscripts: Bookbinder, Quiller, Scriven, Scrivener. A Chaplain was a priest with special duties. A Priest’s servant might work in his cottage, field, or land (hence Prescot and so on). A Palmer was one who had been on a crusade. A Clerk was usually attached to the local church or castle, but might live in the village. A Latimer (Latiner) was a well-qualified clerk who could speak Latin. A Doctor was a learned person, perhaps a teacher at the new universities. A Proctor was an ecclesiastical law court official. Castle and Manor; Personal: Chalmers, Chamberlain, Chambers. Chatelain, Dispenser, Seneschal, Spencer, Spence, Steward, Stewart. Botiller, Boteyller, Butler. Chaplin, Caplin, Caplan. Page, Paget, Paige. General. Rush, Rushman, Woodruffe (strewed floor with rushes and herbs). Launder, Lander, Lavender, Washer. Maid. Mann, Groom, Hall. Barber. Herald, Messenger. Usher. Maidman, Maidment. Doctor: Leach, Leech, Sawbones, Wiseman. Nurse (wet-nurse). Food. Coke, Cook, Cooke. Scullion, Skillin, Skilling, Kitchen, Kitchener. Day (prepared food, mainly dairy products). Baker, Bakester, Baxter. Butcher, Flesher, Fleshewer, Kellogg, Knatchbull. Brewer, Brewster, Broster. Entertainment. Fiddler, Harper, Piper, Player. Rhymer, Rimes, Singer. Dancer. Jester. Guards. Doorward, Doreward, Durward, Porter. Ward, Warde, Warden, Warder. Fighting. Knight. Squire. Archer, Bowman. Yeoman. Jenner (siege engineer). Outside. Gardener, Gardiner. Hunt, Hunter, Venner. Falconer, Faulkner, Falkner. Fisher, Netter. Fowler. Parker, Parke. Pinder. Smith. Cart-driver: Carter, Wain, Wainer, Wainman, Weyman. Horses. Mareschal, Marshall, Mascall, Maskell. Coltard, Coltman, Palfrey, Palfreyman, Runciman, Steed, Steedman, Stoddart, Studdart. A Chamberlain looked after the lord’s chambers and personal requirements. A Butler was in charge of drink, and served the lord’s wine. A Spencer or Steward was in charge of and dispensed stores. A Marshall looked after the horses (originally a farrier and what is now called a groom; ‘groom’ then meant a general servant). Obviously, the Chamberlain, Steward, and Marshall were elevated over time, but the Butler remained much the same. A Maidman waited on maidens. A Barber pulled teeth and so on as well as cut hair. Kellogg is from ‘kill hog’, and ‘knatch’ meant to knock on the head. A Parker policed enclosed castle estates. A Pinder impounded stray animals. Other tradesmen might be present, as well as those from the village associated with the castle. Officialdom and Law: Hayward. Ward, Warden. Bailiff: Bailey, Reeve. Pinder. Parker. Forester, Forrest, Forster, Foster, Woodward. Sheriff (shire reeve). Lawman, Constable. Judge, Justice. Sargeant. Camp, Campion, Champion, Kemp. Challenger. Summoner, Sumner. Criminal: Merriman, Outlaw. Law was not a separate profession in happier times. At the end of the 12th century royal Judges were instituted and Knights appointed as Justices, but usually each lord held his own court for minor offences, and took part in the shire court for major ones. The Sheriff presided, attended by a Constable; the Sargeant was an armed attendant in the law courts. A Sumner summoned people to appear in court. Difficult cases could be decided in a trial by ordeal or combat, in which the prudent might be represented by a Champion (or Challenger). The Woodward or Forester policed the royal forests and stopped illegal hunting, like the Parker on a larger scale. Town and Around (Makers and Sellers): Burgess (independent house-owner). Master.Apprentice: Prentice, Prentiss, Masters, Masterman. Service. Maid. Man, Groom. Cook. Scullion, Kitchener. Day. Barber. Officials. Bailiff: Bailey, Baillie, Bayley, Bayliss, Greaves, Grieve, Reeve, Reeves. Constable. Watchman: Ward, Warde, Warden, Warder. Toller, Travers, Travis. Building. Wright, Carpenter. Machin, Mason, Stonehewer, Stone, Stonier. Waller. Thatcher, Thacker, Thaxter. Slater, Slatter. Paver, Tiler,Tyler. Painter, Paynter. Chalker. Wood. Hacker, Hackman, Hackwood, Sawyer,Wood, Woodman. Hardware. Barrels, tubs, buckets: Cooper, Cowper; Hooper. Carts: Cartwright, Wainwright. Wheels (mostly spinning wheels): Trinder, Wheeler, Wheelwright. Earthenware: Potter, Crocker, Croker, Thrower, Turner. Roper. Soper. Bowler. Spooner. Horner. Ploughwright. Blacksmith, Faber, Farrar, Farrer, Farrow, Feaver, Ferrar, Ferrier, Smith, Smithers, Smythe. Tinker,Whitesmith. Wool. Carder, Comber; Tozer. Spinner, Spinster. Weaver, Webb, Webber, Webster. Lister, Dyer. Bleacher. Cloth. Fuller, Tucker, Walker. Burler, Burrel. Challon, Challoner. Quilter. Leather. Skinner, BOOK OF NAMES 52 Tanner, Barker. Clothing.Taylor, Tailor, Shears, Shearman, Sherman, Sharman. Shoemaker: Souter, Suter, Sowter, Cordiner, Cordner, Cordwainer. Dealer. Marchant, Merchant. Chapman, Monger, Chaffer, Groser. Packman, Peddler. Wool: Woolman. Cloth: Clother, Clothier, Draper, Merchant. Leather. Charcoal: Collier. Horses: Horsmonger. Hay: Hay, Hayman. Grain: Cornier, Cornmonger. Cater. Food. Bacchus, Backer, Backhouse, Baker, Bakester, Baxter. Cheesewright. Blood, Butcher, Flesher, Fleshewer, Kellogg, Knatchbull. Drink. Brewer, Brewster, Broster. Innkeeper: Taverner, Ostler, Hostler, Inman, Sellars. Typical occupations from farm, village, and castle would also be present. A Burgess was the town equivalent of a freeman; Masters (of guilds, trades, and so on) were of like status. Tollers collected tolls, oft-times at a traverse (bridge or ford). A Waller repaired walls. A Chalker white-washed. A Hooper added metal hoops to wooden tubs and so on. A Turner turned a wheel or lathe to round clay, wood, or bone. Horners made items from horn (tumblers, combs, and drinking and musical horns too). Tozers teased wool. Walkers, Fullers, and Tuckers softened cloth. Burlers made coarse cloth; Challoners made blankets. A Barker used oak bark for tanning. It was usually a Tailor that made (soft-soled) shoes, so Souters and so on were uncommon; hard-soled shoes, and the name ‘Cobbler’, was continental. (Bricks also, so there were no English Brickers; bricks started to be imported from Holland in Renaissance times.) A Chapman was originally a dealer of any kind, but fell from Merchant to Peddler status over the Middle Ages. Groser was a late term. Corn meant any kind of grain. A Cater purveyed goods to large households. City and Port (Specialists): Common. Baker, Barber, Brewer, Carpenter, Clothier, Cook, Furrier, Maid, Mason, Tailor. Service. Link. Launder. Maid. Man, Cook. Barber. Doctor. Building. Glass: Glaisher, Glaser, Glass, Glasser, Glassman, Glazier. Plaster. Carpenter, Joiner, Joyner. Sculptor, wood-carver: Carver, Imager, Turner. Metalwork. Lead: Plummer, Leadbeater, Leadbetter. Brass: Brasher, Brazur, Brazier. Copper: Brownsmith, Coppersmith. Valuables: Goldsmith, Silver, Minter, Coiner, Money, Moneyer, Jeweller. Hardware. Bowers, Bowyer. Stringer.Arrowsmith, Fletcher. Sworder. Knives: Naismith, Cutler. Sheath. Armour:Armour,Armourer, Larmer, Mayle. Helmer.Armour repair: Furber, Frobisher. Bits and spurs: Lorimer, Loriner. Saddler. Locks: Key, Keyes, Locker, Lockyer. Nails: Naylor. Iron goods: Iremonger. Candles: Chaundler. Pouches: Purser. Furs: Skinner, Feller, Peltmonger. Silks: Mercer. Clothing. Glover. Girdler. Mantler. Fur garments: Furrier. Headgear: Hatter, Capper, Hodder, Hood. Hose: Hozier, Chaucer. Buttons: Butner, Button. Buckles: Buckler. Embroidery: Treadwell, Treadgold. Old clothing: Clothier. Food. Baker, Pye, Whitebread, Cakebread. Butters, Cheese, Cheeseman, Creamer. Honeyman. Nutter. Fish, Fishman, Stockfish. Apple, Costard, Pippin. Condiments: Spicer, Garlick, Ginger, Mustard; Pepper, Peppercorn, Pepperman, Culpepper; Salt, Salter, Saltman. Drink. Wine: Vinter, Wynyard. Water-seller: Lader, Laderman, Leader,Waterman. Sea and River. Boatwright, Shipwright. Sailor: Shipman, Shippam, Marriner, Marner. Fisher. Ferryman: Boatman, Ferrier, Waterman. Typical occupations from farm, village, church, castle, and of course town were also present. Craftsmen and Mongers tended to specialise in particular goods, so general Smiths, Wrights, and Tailors were few in number. Stockfish was fish salted down for winter. Link meant a linkboy, who provided light through unlit streets after dark. Treadwell is from ‘thread well’. Well-to-do men tended to wear hose; others wore looser breeches (pants) made by a tailor. Nicknames Most nicknames arose spontaneously. Most described obvious overlapped with occupations (a hunter might be known by his appearance or character, sometimes metaphorically by alluding prey, for instance) or were ironic (referring to high rank, or to a bird or animal. Medieval folk were acute observers of nature, describing a big man as little). Colours such as brown, black, red, and could identify many more creatures than a modern city-white, grey usually referred to the hair, but could also indicate dweller, and describe their characteristics. Some nicknames habitual garments. Some common nicknames are listed first. Descriptive: Ballard, Beard, Black, Blackman, Bright, Brown, Crisp, Green, Gray, Grey, Hoar, Pollard, Read, White, Whitehead. Armstrong, Crook, Long, Short, Small, Strong, Swift, Turnbull. Blythe, Free, Fry, Good, Keen, Moody, Pratt, Sharp, Smart, Snell, Stark, Wild, Wise. Metaphorical: Bird, Cock, Crane, Crowe, Dove, Finch, Hawk, Jay, Nightingale, Partridge, Peacock, Pye, Raven, Rook, Sparrow, Swan, Woodcock, Wren. Brock, Buck, Bull, Bullock, Drake, Fitch, Fitchett, Fox, Hare, Hart, Hogg, Lamb, Todd, Wolf. Flint, Frost, Gold, Lilly, May, Snow, Steele, Summer, Winter. Status: Ironic.Abbott, Angel, Baron, Bishop, Darling, Earle, King, Lord, Loveman, Monk, Nunn, Pope, Prior. Factual. Ayer, Ayre, Eyre. Bond, Burgess, Child, Cousin, Franklin, Freeman, Goodman, Guest, Mann, Master, Newman, Palmer. Pilgrim, Peagrim, Pegram. For numbers and variety, nicknames rival the leaves of an autumn forest. A few have been raked into loosely sorted piles below. Nicknames based on appearance come first. Those of birds and animals come next. They can cover several traits (for instance, Fox could be used to describe a red-haired or cunning person), so are listed by creature. Most meanings should be obvious, but some are noted. Last come nicknames of behaviour, character, relationship, and even favourite sayings. (Imagine if your nickname were your most frequent oath.) See Chapter Three, ‘Epithets’ also. Hair: Dark. Black, Blackett (blackhead), Blacklock, Blake, Brown, Dark, Dunn (dark), Dunnett (darkhead). Fair. Blount, Blundell, Blunden, Blunt, Bright, Fair, Fairfax (fair hair), Gold, Sherlock (shining locks), White, Whitehead. Red. Read, Reed, Reid, Rouse, Rowse, Rudd, Russell. Grey. Gray, Grey, Hoar (very old, or silvery grey), Silver. Balding. Ballard (bald), Pollard (cropped short). Curly. Cripps, Crisp, Curl, Curley, Curling, Lovelock (fanciful curls). Bearded. Beard, Baird. Body: Tall. Grant, Laing, Lang, Long, Longbone, Longfellow, Longman, Longshanks. Short. Bass, Bassett, Little, Littler, Peppercorn, Pettit, Petty, Short, Shorter. Fat. Bigg, Bradman, Broad, Broadribb, Metcalfe, Mutch, Puddifat, Pudding, Thick. Thin. Baines, Bones, Smale, Small, Smallbones, Thynne. Crooked. Crookbain, Crook, Crooks, Cruikshanks, Crump, Sheepshanks. General. Broadhead (fat-head), Greathead, Head. Foot. Hand, Whitehand. Other: Eyes. Blackie, Brodie (broad eye), Brownie, Godney, Goosey, Hawkey (hawk eye), Littley, Smalley. Complexion. White: Lilley, Lilly, White. Pink: Rose. Dark: Black, Blackman, Brown, Carbonell (lump of coal), Cole (charcoal), Coleman, Collier, Moor, Morris. Pretty, sweet. Beale, Bell, Blanchflower, Blossom, Fair, Flower, Flowerdew, Honeydew, Lilley, Love, Rose, Sweet, Sweetdew, Sweetlove. Youthful. Buck, Budd, Cock, May, Mildmay, Pinnel (sapling pine), Spray, Sprig, Twigg, Yonge, Young, Younger. Old. Auld, Ault, Frost, Gamble, Gamlin, Gammell, Gray, Grey, Hoare, Old, Silver, Snow, White, Whitehead. Clothing. Boots, Green, Greene, Scarlett, Blue, Bluitt, Blewett, Hood, Greenhead, Shorthouse (short hose), Wytebelt. Bird: Bustard: large. Cock, Cockerell: lively, spirited, dominant. Coote: bald. Corbett, Corbin (little crow): small and dark. Corncrake, Craik, Crake: grating voice. Crane; Heron: tall and thin. Crowe, Raven, Rook: dark. Dove, Culver; Dunnock (hedge-sparrow); Pigeon: gentle. Eagle: majestic. Finch: gaiety. Gander, Goose: curious, silly. Havoc, Hawk, Hawke, Hawkes, Hawkin; Muskett, Sparks, Sparrowhawk; Falcon; Haggard; Merlin; Goshawk, Tassel (tiercel): fierce, brave, fast, keen-sighted. Jay: gaudy, overdressed. Kite, Puttock: fierce, wild. Lark, Laverock: cheerful, early riser. Nightingale: singer. Owl, Povey: wisdom, unlucky. Partridge: plump. Peacock, Pocock, Poe, Paw: proud. Pye, Magpie: chatterer. Sparrow, Pinnock: noisy, merry, quarrelsome. Starling: noisy, tattler. Swallow: swift, journeyer. Swan: white, elegant. Thrush, Throstle, Thrussell: singer, amorous. Woodcock; Quail, Quayle: foolish. Woodpecker, Peck, Pecker, Speight: nickname for carpenter. Wren: small. Beast: Deer: Brockett (young red deer), Buck, Hart, Roe, Roebuck, Stag. Fox, Todd. Hogg (full-grown boar; ferocious), Wilbur, Wildbore. Fitch, Fitchett (wild-cat or polecat; short-tempered). Badger, Brock. Lovell, Lovett (little wolf); Wolf, Wolfe, Woolf. Bull, Bullock, Stott. Lion, Lyon. Cat, Kitcat, Puss, Pusscat. Mussell, Muzzell (weasel). Ferret. Stoat. Beaver. Coney (rabbit). Hare. Kidd. Lamb. Mole. Mouse. Otter. Squirrel. Grubb. Moth. Drake (dragon; fierce). Qualities: Warrior, heroic. Bold, Courage, Doughty, Durand (enduring), Faithful, Hard (unyielding), Harding, Hardy, Keen (like his weapon), Manly, Moody (high mood, brave), Savage, Sharp, Smart (fierce, inflicting pain), Snell (dashingly brave), Stark (hard and inflexible), Stern (as for stark), Stout, Sturdy, True, Truman, Wild. Strong. Armstrong, Bradefer (Bras-de-fer; iron-arm), Strong, Strongman, Turnbull. Dextrous. Hendy, Henty (handy), Quartermain (four hands). Well-bred. Curtis, Curtoys (courteous); Good; Noble. Intelligent, perceptive. Barratt, Barrett (cunning), Pratt (astute), Ready, Reddy (having good judgement), Sage, Wise. Cheerful. Bligh, Bly, Blythe, Fairweather, Gaye, Hopgood (optimist), Joliffe, Jolly, Lovejoy, Merriman, Merriweather, Merry. Travel: Rider. Gallop, Knight, Rideout, Rider, Ryder. Runner, fast. Arrow, Bird, Bonpas (good pace), Golightly, Hare, Lightfoot, Speed, Swift, Trotman, Trott, Trotter. Strange gait. Ambler, Crowfoot, Malpass (bad pace), Pettifer (pied-de-fer, iron foot), Pettigrew (crane foot), Steptoe, Tripp. Social: Relative. Bairnsfather, Cousin, Eame (uncle), Maufe (in-law), Maw, Neave (nephew). Ayer,Ayre, Eyre (heir). Child: Child (noble youth), Fairbairn, Fairburn, Fairchild, Goodchild, Ladd, Littleboy, Littlechild, Suckling. Stranger. Guest, Newcome, Newman, Strange, Unwin (not friend). Friend, greeting. Bellamy (bel ami), Bonham (bon homme), Bonser, Fairbrother, Fairman, Fellowe, Friend, Goodbody, Goodfellow, Goodsir, Muncer (monsieur). Oath. Bigod; Goatcher (good cheer); Godsalve, Godsave, Godsiff, Godsall, Godsill, Godber; Mordue (mort de Dieu); Mothersole; Pardoe, Pardew, Pardy (par Dieu); Purdue, Purdie, Purdy (pour Dieu). Various:Aydrunken, Drinkall. Drinkwater. Dolittle. Lytilprud (little worth). Singalday. Spendthrift, Scattergood. Miser. Moneypenny, Pennyfeather, Turnpenny.Amorous. Darling, Dear, Dearing, Dearlove, Dearman, Fulleylove (full of love), Leaman, Loveman, Luffman, Prettilove, Spendlove, Spenlow, Spindlow, Sweeting, Sweetman, Truelove, Wencher. Seasonal. Frost, Snow, Spring, Storm, Summer, Summers, Summerson, Somers, Tempest, Winter. Christmas, Holliday, Loveday, Midwinter,Yule. Substance. Flint, Gold, Steele, Stone. African Africa has over a hundred native languages, and many more tribes and tribal groups. Its history is at least as turbulent as Europe’s, with many invasions, migrations, and conquests, both internal and external (for instance, the Zulus hadn’t settled in southeast Africa until the 17th century; most pygmies were slaughtered in the 20th century). The Arabs strongly influenced the north and east of the continent from the 9th century; European nations traded with Africa after the 15th century, started to colonise it later, and withdrew in the 20th century. The names provided here should do for both past and present. They are selected from a few current languages, countries, and tribal groupings of sub-Saharan black Africa. Languages and stocks of names do not always coincide either with each other or with ethnic or national divisions. The headings in the name lists refer to language and tribe, unless otherwise noted here. East Africa: Kikuyu, Kisii, Luo, Nyakyusa, Swahili (Kiswahili; language), Efe (tribe; Ituri Forest pygmies). South Africa: Ngoni, Sesotho (language of Sotho tribe), Shona, Tswana (Setswana), Xhosa, Yao, Zulu. West Africa: Benin (former kingdom, now part of Nigeria), Ewe, Fante, Ibo (Igbo), Yoruba. In the past, personal names would have been used exclusively. Modern African naming patterns are usually European, sometimes Arabic, although single names are still used in some places. Many Africans tend to use a mix of native and foreign names, the language depending on the former colonial power, although native names are more popular. Someone in former British Malawi, for instance, could be called Sam Kunje, Kamuzu Smith, or Pambuka Phiri. Polite terms of address in tribal villages are usually those of kinship: Grandfather, Mother, Uncle, Aunt, perhaps Brother or Sister, depending on ‘relative’ ages. Native African names show some distinctive trends. Most mean something (those with forgotten meanings are usually names of past figures). The typical qualities, objects, and animals appear: hunter, lion, tailor, green, shining, strong, laughter, gift, beloved, good fortune, sword, warrior, hero, prince, elephant, fighter of leopards. Some seem a bit strange: graveyard, beer, mat, millet, a leg, mountain of beans, eyes like hard porridge, the wizard’s tools, one who smashes to bits. Many names can be unisex, but there is a slight preference for pretty names for girls, such as Male Personal Names little bird or sweetly singing. Common across Africa is naming the child by the time of birth: many children are called the local names for Monday, Tuesday, and so on (or the days in the eight-market-day cycle of the Ibo calendar). These might cover almost any conditions: born at dawn, born during the harvest/the rainy season/the time of white ants, born while crossing a river, born after twins, mother nagged a lot during pregnancy. There are many names formed from well-known phrases, often proverbs. Often such names are recognisable parts of a longer phrase, for instance, Epundu is from “Epu ndu atua alo”: where there’s life there’s hope. Pronunciation African languages and dialects vary widely in pronunciation, but there are some basic similarities. Most letters should be sounded out. Some consonant combinations may seem unusual, but just need practice, for instance, /kw/ is just like the /qu/ in ‘queen’; you just slide from one consonant to the next, as with /bw/, /kf/, /mb/, /nd/, /ng/, and so on. The /m/ and /n/ are pronounced as full syllables before /t/. There is no inserted vowel sound in any case: the /m/ sounds like /mm/, not /em/, and so on. An apostrophe after /ng/ softens it, so /ng/ is as in finger, but /ng’/ is as in sing. Looking at Swahili in particular, the stress usually falls on the penultimate syllable. Vowels are not notably drawn out. The /a/ is long, as in ‘art’. The /e/ rhymes with ‘hey’, the /i/ is a long /ee/ sound, and /o/ and /u/ are also long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ respectively. The /g/ is hard, /j/ sounds like /dy/, /s/ is sharp, as in ‘kiss’, /th/ is hard, as in ‘thin’, /dh/ is the soft /th/ in ‘then’, and /ch/ is the hard /tch/ in ‘chair’. To pronounce the names, just break them into syllables, finishing every syllable with a vowel, if possible. ‘Mtakwishayenu’ is broken into M-ta-kwi-sha-ye-nu, and pronounced mm-tah-kwee-shah-Yay-noo; ‘Kwagalana’is kwa-gah-Lah-nah. Some other examples: Benin ‘Imarogbe’ is ee-Mah-roh-beh; Ewe ‘Adika’ is ah-dee-Kah; Fante ‘Agymah’ is ahg-jee-Mah; Ibo ‘Ezeamaka’ is Eh-zeh-ah-mah-kah; Kikuyu ‘Gikuyu’ is Geh-koh.yoh and ‘Muthomi’ is Moh-thoh-mee, but ‘Runo’ is Roo-noh; Kisii ‘Nyachae’is Nyah-chah-ay; Ngoni ‘Thako’is Tah-koh; Xhosa ‘Mthuthuzeli’is mm-too-too-Zeh-lee; Yoruba ‘Shade’is shah-Deh; Zulu ‘Thandiwe’ is tahn-Dee-weh. Benin:Amadi,Azagba, Ehioze, Enobakhare, Ewansiha, Imarogbe, Nosakhere, Obaseki, Ode, Omolara, Omorede, Omoruyi, Osagboro, Osahar, Osakwe, Osayaba, Osaze Efe:Abamu, Apumbai, Arungele, Baranga, Batinaza, Chabo, Dingono, Eembi, Kosiani, Mokomoko, Ndolu, Pekele, Temu Ewe:Adika, Ametefe, Atsu, Cohblah, Cohfie, Cohmee, Cohjoe, Kpodo, Kwakou, Kwami, Lumo, Mawulawde, Mawuli, Mensah, Quaashie, Tse, Yao Fante:Agymah,Akua, Atu, Ebo, Fenuku, Fifi, Kufuo, Osei, Twia, Yafeu, Yorkoo Ibo: Abazu, Achebe, Azikiwe, Azubuike, Chioh, Chukwueneka, Diji, Ezeamaka, Ezeoha, Jaja, Mazi, Mbadiwe, Mbanefo, Ndubuagha, Ngozi, Nnamdi, Nwabudike, Ogbonna, Okafor, Okonkwo, Okpara, Onyebuchi, Onyekaozulu, Orji, Uzochi Kikuyu: Gakuru, Gethii, Gikuyu, Gitonga, Itimu, Kagai, Kairu, Karega, Kiambiroiro, Kianyandaarwa, Kihiga, Kioi, Kithingi, Kuguru, Maundu, Mbogo, Migwi, Muiru, Muiruri, Mukuru, Muraya, Muriu, Muruthi, Muthemba, Muthomi, Mutira, Muugi, Mwara, Mwenda, Nderu, Njama, Njiraini, Njora, Riitho, Runo, Waitimu, Wangombe, Waruhiu Kisii: Makori, Morani, Muga, Nyachae, Omariba, Onkwani, Sokoro Luo: Jaramogi, Obuya, Ochieng, Odikinyi, Odour, Ohon, Okello, Oluoch, Omondi, Onindo, Opiyo, Osogo, Othiambo, Otieno, Ouma, Owiti, Owuor, Waga, Wanyanga Ngoni:Azibo, Chikosi, Chinangwa, Kafele, Kamuzu, Kwende, Lamburira, Lugono, Mandala, Mbwelera, Mpasa, Ndale, Nyemba, Thako, Zikomo Nyakyusa: Ambilikile, Ambonisye, Andalwisye, Andongwisye, Angosisye, Anyelwiswe, Ipyana, Masomakali, Motogusinile, Mposi, Mwamba, Ndweleifwa, Ngonepe, Tukupasya, Watende Sesotho: Bohlale, Kamohelo, Kganyapa, Kotsi, Leeto, Lefu, Makalo, Mamello, Masilo, Masopha, Moeshoeshoe, Mohloki, Moromodi, Nthofeela, Ntja, Polo, Potlako, Sefako, Tahleno, Tefo, Thota, Tladi, Tshepo, Tsie, Tumelo Shona: Banga, Chenzira, Chuma, Dakarai, Gamba, Goredenna, Hondo, Maideyi, Muchaneta, Mwanyisa, Paradzanai, Petiri, Rudo, Sundai, Zuka Swahili:Akida, Badrani, Chaga, Daktari, Dumisha, Fikirini, Haoniyao, Hekima, Ibada, Jela, Jengo, Juma, Kalamka, Keto, Kibasila, Kijana, Kinda, Kiume, Kudumu, Kwagalana, Kwanza, Machano, Makamu, Mambo, Mandara, Maskini, Mbingu, Mcheshi, Mgeni, Mjibu, Mkwasi, Msanaa, Mtaalamu, Mtembei, Mtoto, Mwanza, Mzee, Pandu, Rubama, Safari, Shujaa, Simba, Suhuba, Thani, Tiifu, Tulivu, Ubwa, Uhuru, Uledi, Zuhri Tswana: Baruti, Kefentse, Kopano, Letsego, Mosegi, Mothudi, Tale, Tau, Tebogo Xhosa: Mthuthuzeli, Nolizwe, Nonceba, Paki, Sipliwo, Themba, Uuka, Xola, Zola Yao: Chikumbu, Chisulo, Citiwala, Kapeni, Kuthakwakulu, Linje, Lukongolo, Masamba, Mbiya, Ngolinga, Ngunda, Nkuku, Thenga, Useni, Utni Yoruba: Abejide, Abidugun, Abiola, Abioye, Adebamgbe, Adeboro, Adejola, Adelaja, Adetokunbo, Adeyemi, Adjo, Adusa, Ajagbe, Ajani, Akinkawon, Akinlana, Akinshegun, Akintunde, Akinwunmi, Alonge, Apara, Ayodele, Babatunde, Balogun, Banjoko, Dada, Durojaiye, Foluke, Idowu, Jibade, Kayode, Kosoko, lyapo, Mongo, Obadele, Obataiye, Obayana, Ogunsheye, Okanlawon, Olafemi, Olaniyan, Olubayo, Olugbala, Olukayode, Olushegun, Oluwa, Omotunde, Shangobunni, Sowande, Taiwo Zulu:Ayize, Cetewayo, Chaka, Dingane, Dingiswayo, Dinizulu, Mbejane, Mbulazi, Mgidlana, Mhlangana, Mpande, Mpumelele, Mtonga, Nkosi, Senzangakona, Sigidi, Sipho, Thandiwe, Vusimuzi Others: Addae, Adeben, Adofo, Adom, Agyei, Agyeman, Akiki, Akwetee, Ambakisye, Ampah, Anane, Ankoma, Anum, Aondohimba, Awotwe, Badu, Balondemu, Batian, Bem, Boseda, Chihambuane, Chilemba, Chitsime, Chitundu, Chiumbo, Chiwocha, Chuguel, Chumachienda, Diallo, Donkor, Dukuzumuremyi, Dumisai, Duniisai, Gahiji, Gowon, Gwandoya, Gyasi, Habimana, Hakizimana, Hlubi, Jabulani, Jimiyu, Kadokechi, Kandhla, Kigongo, Kizza, Kodwo, Kofi, Kojo, Kontar, Kwabena, Kwame, Kwasi, Leabua, Lipapwiche, Lizwelicha, Lutalo, Luzige, Madongo, Magomu, Makalani, Manu, Matsimela, Mawagali, Mbizi, Minkah, Mpenda, Msrah, Mukhwana, Mulogo, Munanire, Munyiga, Musoke, Mwinyimkuu, Najja, Nakisisa, Nangila, Nangwaya, Njowga, Nkrumah, Nkundiushuti, Nonga, Nsoah, Nyamekye, Nyatui, Nyillingondo, Ogwambi, Ojore, Oko, Ottah, Runihura, Sebahive, Sentwali, Sifiye, Sinawothi, Siyazini, Teremun, Thabiti, Tor, Tuako, Tuwile, Tyehimba, Unika, Wamukota, Wanjala, Wemusa, Yawo, Yoofi, Zesiro, Zilabamuzale Female Personal Names Benin: Edenausegboye, Ekaghogho, Enomwoyi, Ikuseghan, Irawagbon, Isoke, Izegbe, Nourbese, Ode, Omolara, Omorenoniwara, Omorose, Omosede, Omosupe, Osayioniwabo, Oseye, Urbi Efe: Aluta, Atosa, Ediobo, Keniteefo, Mapiembi, Maratsi, Melika, Okalese, Safarani, Teema, To’kuta, Undetobo, Zatu Ewe: Ababuo, Afafa, Afia, Akosua, Akua, Ama, Boahinmaa, Do, Dofi, Enyonyam, Lumusi, Mawusi, Nanyanika, Ozigbodi, Serwa, Yaa, Ye Fante:Aba, Adwoa, Antobam, Baba, Efia, Esi, Kakra, Kukua, Mama, Panyin, Sisi Ibo: Adaeke, Adaeze, Amadi, Amaogechukwu, Chinasaekpele, Chinue, Chinyelu, Ekwutosi, Gwamniru, Ifama, Ifeoma, Mbafor, Mbeke, Ndulu, Ngoli, Ngozi, Nkechi, Nneka, Nnenaya, Nwakaego, Obiageli, Onyebuchi, Uchefuna, Ukamaka, Uloma Kikuyu: Gathoni, Jata, Kioni, Makena, Moombi, Mukami, Mukondi, Mumbi, Murigo, Murugi, Muthoni, Ngendo, Ngina, Njeri, Njoki, Noni, Nyaguthii, Nyakio, Nyambura, Nyawira, Nyokabi, Waceera, Wairimu, Waitherero, Wakiuru, Wambui, Wamuhu, Wamuiru, Wamweru, Wangai, Wangari, Wangera, Wangu, Wanja, Wanjeri, Wanjiku, Wanjiru, Wokabi Kisii: Barongo, Kerubo, Kwamboka, Mong’ina, Moraa, Nyanjera, Nyathera Luo: Abuya, Achieng, Adongo, Akello, Akeyo, Akinyi, Akoth, Aluoch, Amondi, Angweng, Anindo, Anyango, Apiyo, Arogo, Athiambo, Atieno, Awino, Awiti, Awour Ngoni: Chaonaine, Dziko, Kwayera, Mabuufo, Mpatuleni, Mwai, Ndachitanji, Ngulinga, Sekani, Sigele, Teleza, Tidyanawo, Tisaubiranji, Tithandianasi, Usiku Nyakyusa: Bupe, Kyalamboka, Mundufiki, Ngabile, Sekelaga, Sigolwide, Sikambagila, Suma, Syandene, Tulimbwelu, Tulinagwe, Tumpe, Tupokigwe, Tusajigwe, Twaponilo Sesotho: Dikeledi, Dimakatso, Disebo, Fumane, Lerato, Mesinyane, Modiehi, Molelekeng, Monono, Mookgo, Mosele, Mpho, Nkamoheleng, Nthuseng, Nyakallo, Palesa, Pulane, Puleng, Sellwane, Sephonono, Tebello, Thabang, Tsebo, Tseleng, Tshepiso Shona: Chemwapuwa, Chipo, Japera, Jendayi, Kambo, Maiba, Mudiwa, Muzwudzani, Mwaurayeni, Mwazwenyi, Rufaro, Sangeya, Sekayi, Shoorai, Sukutai Swahili:Aminifu, Bahati, Bitisururu, Dawa, Farashuu, Gharibuu, Haoniyao, Hiari, Horera, Ibtisam, Jioni, Juza, Kazija, Kianga, Kifaa, Kimacho, Kipenzi, Kisima, Kujuwakwangu, Laini, Lubaya, Machui, Matima, Menikaliya, Mimi, Monima, Mpingo, Mshinda, Mtakwishayenu, Mvita, Mwanabaraka, Mwanajuma, Mwanatabu, Mzuri, Neemaka, Njema, Nuha, Paka, Pili, Sakina, Sheshe, Shukuru, Sisya, Somo, Tamasha, Tatu, Tisha, Uzima, Wimbo, Zaituni Tswana: Dikeledi, Goitsemedime, Kagiso, Kefilwe, Lerato, Montsho, Moswen, Mpho, Tale Xhosa: Mandisa, Nkosazana, Nobanzi, Nombeko, Nomble, Nomuula, Nonyameko, Serafina, Thandiwe Yao:Abikanile, Alile, Asale, Buseje, Chimwala, Chiwa, Chotsani, Kantayeni, Kausiwa, Kuliraga, Kwasausya, Liziuzayani, Malawa, Mesi, Njemile Yoruba:Abayomi, Abebi, Abeke, Abeo, Abidemi, Adebola, Adebomi, Adedewe, Adeleke, Adeola, Adesimbo, Aina, Aiyetoro, Alaba, Ama, Amonke, Ayo, Ayobunmi, Ayodele, Ayoluwa, Ayoola, Bayo, Bolade, Bolanile, Dada, Ebun, Fabayo, Femi, Folade, Folami, Folayan, Foluke, Idowu, Ifetayo, Ige, Jumoke, Kokumo, lyabo, Monifa, Oianiyi, Olabisi, Olaniyi, Olubunmi, Olufemi, Olufunmilayo, Oluremi, Shade, Titilayo, Torkwase, Yetunde Zulu: Nande, Nokothula, Nomalanga, Sibongile, Siboniso, Siphiwe, Thandi, Themba, Thula Others: Abam, Abbo, Abena, Adowa, Afua, Ako, Akosua, Akwete, Akwokwo, Aluna, Ama, Anapa, Areta, Asa, Assata, Azalee, Baina, Barongo, Becca, Binah, Dene, Doto, Ede, Edo, Efura, Emojung, Esiankiki, Falala, Gyamfua, Iverem, Iyangura, Juba, Jumapili, Kainda, Kali, Kanika, Kanoni, Kaweria, Kaya, Kerubo, Keyah, Kinah, Kissa, Kiziah, Kizuwanda, Kuiwa, Kulwa, Kunto, Kwamboka, Loiyan, Lumengo, Mafuane, Mangeni, Marka, Masani, Mhonum, Mkegani, Mong’ina, Moraa, Morihinze, Morowa, Mugure, Mukamutara, Mukantagara, Muteteli, Mwamuila, Mwanawa, Mwanjaa, Nabirye, Nabukwasi, Nabulungi, Nafula, Nafuna, Naki, Nakpangi, Nalongo, Namono, Namusobiya, Nangla, Nasiche, Ndila, Njemile, Njeri, Nkemge, Nkruma, Nyanjera, Nyankomago, Nyathera, Nyawela, Nyframahoro, Nyimak, Nyirej, Obax, Ofrah, Rhaxma, Shiminege, Sitembile, Sroda, Tawiah, Tembandumba, Thema, Tuwalole, Uwimana, Wambui, Wesesa, Yaa, Yahimba, Zahabu, Zesiro, Zuna Family Names Family names were not used prior to European contact, and many Africans still do not use them. Arabic patterns are used by some tribes. There are some native family names among those using the western model of personal name + family name. Some examples follow. Male personal names can often be used as family names. Benin: Ahomadegebe, Apithy, Kerekou, Maga, Soglo, Zinsou Kikuyu: Kariuki, Kebiro, Kenyatta, Kimathi, Maathai, Maina, Mika, Mwangi Others:Abba, Abelo, Abiolo, Achebe, Ade, Adesanya, Adeyni, Afram, Afrani, Ahanda, Ahidjo, Aidoo, Akii-Bua, Aklamagpe, Akuffo, Aluko, Amadi,Anaba, Ankrah, Atebe,Azikiwe, Ba, Babangida, Babito, Bagaza, Bahunda, Bandi, Biko, Binaisa, Biobaku, Bitok, Biwott, Biya, Biyidi, Boesak, Bokassa, Bol, Bongo, Boshosho, Buhari, Bulagulwa, Bundu, Busia, Buthelezi, Bvumbwe, Camara, Charula, Chikanga, Chileshe, Cogoano, Dafalla, Deng, Dia, Diaka, Diallo, Dibango, Diop, Dunde, Ekwensi, Emecheta, Eyadema, Garane, Gowon, Gwasaze, Iwundu, Jabavu, Jimoh, Kabwe, Kacheche, Kadzola, Kaigwa, Kakhobwe, Kamwana, Kane, Kante, Kasavubu, Kaunda, Kenga, Keita, Khama, Khonje, Kibaki, Kilonzo, Kimbangu, Kimanthi, Kiongo, Kisimba, Kitur, Kolingba, Korir, Kosgei, Kukah, Kulibali, Kunene, Kuti, Kwei, Lamizana, Longolongo, Lule, Lumumba, Lusalah, Luswetiu, Lutwa, Makanda, Makata, Makeba, Makiadi, Malinki, Mambo, Masekela, Massamba, Matete, Matiba, Matiku, Mazrui, Mbasogo, Mboya, Mofolo, Momoh, Monenga, Mugabe, Mukabi, Mutesa, Mutolo, Mwachofi, Mwafulirwa. Mzungu, Mwale, Mwangi, Mwinye, Myongo, Mzali, Nankyama, Ndong, Ngala, Nkomo. Nhomgo, Nkrumah, Ntaba, Nujoma, Nyerere, Nyoni, Nzibo, Nzumwa, Obasanjo, Obote, Odinga, Offei, Offrata, Okara, Okino, Okoth, Omolo, Opango, Osewe, Ousmane, Oyono, Ramaphosa, Rono, Rumfa, Saitoti, Sassou, Sebangeni, Sembene, Senghot, Shagari, Shikuku, Sibanda, Sindato, Solaja, Soyinkafung, Ssemwanga, Tambo, Thuku, Wandabwa, Yhombi, Youlou, Yuhi, Zerbo Tribe Names Listed below are some current tribes and tribal groupings (such as Bantu). There are myriad others, for instance, Tanzania has over 130 Bantu tribes. East Africa:Acholi, Afar,Amhara, Antaisaka, Antalote, Baganda, Bagisu, Banda, Bantu, Basogo, Batobo, Baya, Betsimisaraka, Bunyoro, Cafre, Chaga, Chokwe, Efe (Pygmies), Gogo, Goulaye, Gurage, Hutu, Iteso, Kaguru, Kalenjin, Kamba, Karamojong, Kikuyu, Kisii, Kunama, Langi, Lugbara, Luhya, Luo, M’Baka, Maasai, Makoa, Makua, Mandjia, Manyika, Massa, Mbaye, Mboum, Meru, Moundang, Moussei, Ngambaye, Oimatsaha, Oromo, Pare, Rwanda, Saho, Sakalava, Samburu, Sara, Sena, Shangaan, Shankella, Sidamo, Somali, Sukuma, Tigre, Tigrinya, Tsimihety,Tutsi, Twa (Pygmies) South Africa: Basarwa, Batswana, Bemba, Chewa, Chokwe, Kalanga, Kaonda, Kgalagadi, Khoikhoin (Hottentots), Lomwe, Lozi, Luba, Luluwa, Lunda, Luvale, Lwalwa, Lwena, Ndebele, Ngonde, Ngoni, Nyanja, Pedi, Pende, Salampasu, San (Bushmen), Sena, Shona, Sotho, Suku, Swazi, Tonga, Tsonga, Tswana, Tumbuko, Venda, Xhosa, Yaka, Yao, Zulu West Africa:Adja, Agni, Akan, Asante, Bafut, Bakongo, Bambara, Bantu, Baoule, Bapounou, Bariba, Bassa, Bateke, Bella, Beri Beri (Kanouri), Bete, Bioko, Bobo, Bubi, Denkyira, Djerma, Eshira, Esu, Ewe, Fang, Fante, Fon, Fula, Fulani, Ga, Gbandi, Gio, Gola, Gourmantche, Grebo, Gurunsi, Hausa, Ibibio, Ibo (Igbo), Idoma, Igala, Ijaw, Jola, Kabre, Kanuri, Kimbundu, Kirdi, Kissi, Kom, Kongo, Kpelle, Krahn, Kru, Kwahu, Lobi, Loma, Luba, M’Bochi, Malinke, Mande, Mandinka, Mangbetu-Azande, Mano, Maur, Mende, Mina, Mongo, Moshi-Dagomba, Mossi, Nzima, Ovimbundu, Peul, Pular, Sangha, Senoufou, Senufo, Serahuli, Serer, Solongo, Songhai, Soninke, Teke, Temne, Tiv, Toubou, Twi, Vai, Vili, Wolof, Woyo, Wum,Yombe, Yoruba Berber The inhabitants of North Africa from ancient times were the Mediterranean race of Berbers - a Roman term from which we get the Barbary Coast, famed for its pirates. They call themselves Imazighen. Most coastal North Africans today are either Arabs or of mixed Berber and Arab descent. The Arab invasion of the 7th century instituted the Mohammedan religion. The second invasion, by Bedouin Arabs in the 12th century, drove many Berbers into mountain and desert regions. Berber is a broad group of similar dialects or languages, containing some Arabic, Latin, and Punic (Carthaginian). The largest Berber-speaking tribes include the Beraber, Haratin, Kabyle, Mozabite, Rif, Shawia, Shluh, and Tuareg (most also speak Arabic, and many speak French). The Moors were Arabic-speaking Berbers. The nomadic Tuareg (of mixed Berber and black African blood) live in the Sahara desert and the steppe and savanna to its south. They call themselves the Kel Tamagheq. They use patronymics rather than inherited family names, in Arabic form but with their own words: ‘ag’meaning ‘son of’, or ‘ult’meaning ‘daughter of’, precede the father’s personal name. For instance, Meslar’s son and daughter might be known as Askiou ag Meslar and Tahenkot ult Meslar. Pronunciation In general all the letters or letter combinations should be pronounced, even final ‘e’s. The pronunciation is similar to Arabic in some respects. The /i/ is usually a long /ee/ sound, and /o/ and /u/ are also long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ respectively. The /ou/ is a dipthong sliding from one to the other with no break. The /a/ is long, as in ‘art’. The /q/ is a throaty /kh/. For the rest, pronounce it as you would English. Male Personal Names Tuareg:Aflan, Ahu, Aitarel, Akorebi, Akrud, Alemhok,Allgoui, Amastame, Amayas, Ansar,Askiou, Aziouel, Beketa, Bekkai, Biska, Bouhen, Buzin, Chekkadh, Chikat, Danguchi, Ehenu, Goma, Hama, Heguir, Iherhe, Ikemma, Ikhenoukhen, Ilou, Kenan, Keneiss, Khelba, Khemidou, Khyar, Lamine, Louki, Makhia, Marli, Mellou, Meslar, Musa, Okha, Ould, Ourzig, Rali, Rezkou, Serada, Souri, Tamaklast, Uksem, Yakhia, Younes Others:Abayghur,Abazza, Abidin, Acku, Adergazuz, Admer,Adrir,Adum, Afaghis, Afalawas, Afellan, Agama, Agdada, Agdun, Aggur,Aghali,Aghilas,Ahamatu, Ajdir,Akaday,Akatelaji, Akawel, Akli, Akorakor,Akutla, Akzer,Alwas,Amastan, Amawal, Amayas, Amazuz, Amdegh, Amellal,Amenzu, Amghar,Ammuc, Amray,Amri,Amud,Anaba, Annaber,Antaken,Anwa, Aras,Asaru, Asirem, Atas, Atissi, Awinagh, Awlagh, Awragh, Axamuk, Aytarel, Ayuba,Azeggagh, Azregh, Beddis, Bezzi, Briruc, Buxtuc, Dali, Firhun, Frawsen, Gaya, Ghanim, Ghaysun, Ghumer, Gildun, Gulussa, Hemmuc, Himmi, Hotha, Ibiza, Iccaam, Idir, Ifni, Ifser, Iften, Ighlas, Igider, Igmi, Iher, Iken, Immeghar, Immel, Irgen, Issam, Itbir, Itij, Itri, Ixzi, Kadidu, Karidenna, Kawsen, Kenan, Keraja, Laweye, Lewnis, Lwennas, Madidu, Malu, Masgaba, Masinisan, Masinissa, Massin, Mazer, Maziba, Mazigh, Meddur, Mejdan, Meksa, Mellal, Menzu, Meqran, Mezian, Mezwar, Mimum, Mula, Nguna, Ogdada, Oukesson, Rakibum, Salla, Seghada, Sekla, Sifaks, Sifal, Suggut, Tabat, Taffounnout, Takfarinas, Tegama, Ugdada, Uksem, Ultac, Uqessun, Urdighis, Uregh, Urtilan, Uryaghel, Uzmir, Wankegh, Xamida, Yaghmurasen, Yeften, Yehlem, Yellel, Yidir,Yiliyen, Yub, Yuba, Yugerten, Zayar, Zeffun, Zeggan, Zerwal, Zwr Female Personal Names Tuareg: Baya, Dassine, Esseber, Kana, Khaouila, Khatti, Lella, Lemtuna, Malla, Meriama, Raeraou, Rahma, Rayshabu, Sada, Sekata, Shemama, Tabehaout, Tagouzamt, Tahat, Tahe, Tahenkot, Tahyart, Takama, Tamagit, Tamat, Tamerouelt, Tamu, Tandarine, Tanelhir, Tanermat, Tanloubouh, Tar’aoussit, Tebubirt, Tiguent, Tihit, Tinhert, Tinhinan, Tioueyin, Umeyda, Wertenezzu, Yendjelan, Zahra Others:Aazzi, Adjan, Aduda, Aldja, Aldjiya, Amgnna,Anya,Azizet, Bakka, Bghnat, Bibya, Dihya, Dimya, Drifa, Ewnis, Faghissa, Fedada, Ferrudja, Gedduda, Ghida, Ghnima, Gwejda, Hedda, Iza, Jdira, Kahina, Kanimana, Kella, Kenwa, Kisa, Kulla, Lalla, Laysa, Lumsi, Lundja, Lwiza, Lyaqut, Madele, Mannet, Massa, Megduda, Mellila, Menza, Mernissa, Myassa, Nanna, Randja, Rula, Ruza, Sekkura, Shabha, Shusha, Silya, Susaa, Tadla, Tadmut, Tafat, Tafrara, Tafsut, Tajeddjigt, Taklit, Talalit, Taljat, Tamallat, Tamemt, Tamilla, Tamimunt, Tamrust, Tanest, Taninna, Tariwelt, Tasa, Tasadit, Tasekkurt, Tati, Tawes, Tawnat, Tayri, Tayyurt, Tazdayt, Tazirit, Tella, Temzi, Tfit, Tigmi, Tikinas, Tilelli, Timellet, Timmi,Tinzert, Tisent, Tislit, Titbirt, Titem, Titrit, Tizemt, Tiziri, Triya, Tuhrict, Tureght, Wezna, Wiza, Wnissa, Wrina, Zamra, Zawgha, Zergha, Zibba, Zidant, Zilgum, Zunagha, Zwina, Zwira Romanized Berber names Some names of Berber rulers in the ancient world are more in the region. Most of the following are male names, but there are familiar in Latin, Greek, and so on: Jurgurtha, Syphax, the 7th some female ones - Kahina, Sophonisbe, Senifer, Capussa, Gaïa, century warrior princess Kahina (Dihya). They are occasionally Gauda. The sex of the others in the following list is unknown, used in this form. Roman names were used in the days of the but those starting with ‘t’ are more likely to be feminine. Roman empire - in fact, the emperor Septimus Severus was born Rulers: Adherbal, Alyamas, Capussa, Gaïa, Galussa, Gauda, Hiempsal, Isalcas (Oesalces), Jurgurtha (Jugurthen), Juva, Kahina, Lacumaces, Masgava, Massinissa (Messina, Mastenissa, Massnsen), Massiva, Mastanabal, Micipsa, Misagenes, Niptasan, Oxynta, Stembanos, Syphax, Vermina (Verminen), Zalelsan Others:Aghiles, Amezian, Amokran, Antalas, Asdrubal, Farudja, Firmus, Gildon, Hamu, Hiarvas, Ifrek, Ithry, Jann, Kuceila, Mazetule, Naravas, Senifer, Sophonisbe, Taos, Tara, Tarhonja, Thafath, Thanina, Unissae, Vaznsen, Vessaii Ancient Egyptian The civilisation of the Ancient Egyptians endured for over three millennia. They were cheerful and sophisticated, but practical and conservative, so their names and customs changed little over that time. Their civilisation still flourished under the Greek Ptolemaic pharaohs, changed religion under Byzantine rule, then ended with the Arab conquest of the 7th century. The names here are mostly from Egyptians before Alexander’s time. The Egyptians had personal names, but often had or were given bynames (Sinuhe the Poet, Ta-kha’et the Minx). Names were vocabulary items and phrases (Chief of the Mercenaries, My Mistress is as Gold, Another One!). Often (4 in 6) they were theophoric, although only a few Egyptian deities were referred to, and deital names could be vocabulary items as well (Mut, mother; Ptah, architect; Maat, truth). There were short versions for everyday use (Khufu for Khnum-khuefu-i, Hat-shepsut for Hat-shepset-khnem-Amun). The names and shorter titles of Pharaohs were not exceptional, and names were also based on them out of respect or gratitude (Men-kheper-re-sonb after the Pharaoh Men-kheper-re, for instance). Many names could be used for either sex (like Nefer-hotep), but women’s names tended to refer more to goddesses and beauty, and men’s more to gods and strength. Pronunciation The Egyptians didn’t write down vowels, so their language’s sound is based on Greek transliterations and fragments of Coptic. Variants and diverging spellings have arisen; sources differ over if it was Sobk-hotpe or Sobek-hotep, Ah-mose or Aah-mes, Zoser or Djoser, nakht or nekht, and so on. Make suitable changes to syllables and deity names if you want to use, say, Rameses and Rahotpe rather than Re-mose and Re.hotep, whether to suit personal taste or to simulate dialects. Hyphenations and apostrophes show syllable breaks. You say all the letters, even the final e’s; double vowels are prolonged, different adjacent vowels are pronounced separately. The /i/ or / iy/ is a long /ee/ sound. The /a/, /e/, /o/, and /u/ are short, as in ‘gnat’, ‘net’, ‘not’, and ‘nut’ respectively. The /kh/ is a throaty / k/, somewhat harder than the /ch/ in ‘loch’. The /r/ is soft, not rolled, and /q/ is like /k/. Stand-alone Names Some names or partial names of deities appear. Nicknames,  simple theophoric name. A few (1 in 20) compound names might  abbreviations, and a few variants are included. Perhaps 1 in 20 of  be even longer: one high priest’s daughter was called Mer-Mut  the upper classes might have a compound name such as Nefert. Kero-mame Sit-Amun Mut-em-hat!  ari Aah-mose - to create one, just combine a name here with a  Male  Common: Hapu, Ka-mose, Kha-mus, Mer-y, Nahi, Pepi, Se-nefer, Uoser Standard:A-ne-djib, A-pehuti-nub, Aa,Aa-ib, Aba, Abana-baba, Ai, Amotu, An,Ankh-ha-f, Ankh-psamthek, Antef, Anu, Apepi, Ari.em-a, Ashor,Assa, Ata, Ati, Au-f-ni, Au-puth, Ay,Aya, Ba-en-nefer, Be-nipu, Bek, Beka-kamen, Den, Djer, Djet, Djoser, Djoser-ti, Ha.ankh-f, Hannu, Hapi, Hapu, Hi, Hia, Hori, Hotep-sekhem-wy, Hui, Huni, Ia-ib, Ib-aa, Iby, Im-hotep, Ini, Ipuy, Iri, Iuput, Ka’a, Ka-kau, Ka-kem, Ka-men, Ka-mose, Ka-nefer, Kebhu, Kedenden, Ken-ken-es, Kha, Kha-ba, Kha-m-thir, Kha-mus, Kha-sekhem-wy, Khai, Khamat, Khem-mose, Khen-djer, Kheper, Khereu-f, Khu-tawy, Khua, Khufu, Ki, Mai, Mar-ti-sen, Men, Menkhtu, Menna, Mer-me.sha, Mer-y, Meri, Meri-atmu, Meri-mose, Mermer, Mes-sui, Na-ro-math, Nahi, Nakht, Nakht-neb-ef, Nakht-neb-tep-nefer, Nanai, Narmer, Ne-kau, Ne-kau-ba, Neb-aiu, Neb-ankh, Neb-iri-au, Neb-ka, Neb-khau, Neb-su, Nefer-hotep, Nefer-khau, Nefer-mennu, Neter.en, Nub, Nub-em-ua, Pa-ari, Pa-aru-sun, Pa-as, Pa-besat, Pa-hir, Pa-if-ruwy, Pa-keti, Pa-lo-ka, Pa-mu, Pa-nauk, Pa-uer, Pe-henu-ka, Pe.uero, Pen-rennu, Pen-ta-ur, Pen-tuauu, Pepi, Pepi-nakht, Per-hor, Pi-ankh, Pi-may, Pi-nu-djem, Pra-em-heb, Pra-her-unam-ef, Psam.metik, Putha, Sa, Sa-nakht, Sa-nakhte, Sankh-tawy, Se-hetep-tawy, Se-neb-miu, Se-nefer, Seher-tawy, Sekhem-ib, Sekhem-khet, Semer.khet, Sen-mesu, Sen-ta, Sen-user-et, Seti, Shepses-ka-f, Shepses-khet, Shoshenq, Si-user-nenen-heb, Sinuhe, Sipar, Sne-feru, Suanar, Ta’o, Taa, Tai-nakht-tha, Takeloth, Takhat, Tcha-heb, Tcha-n-hebu, Tchef-aa-hep, Tchef-ib, Tef-nakht, Teta, Tetu, Thi, Tupu, Uadj.tawy, Uah-ankh, Uba-oner, Ueni, Una, Unas, Unen-nefer, Uoser, Uotmose, Usati, User-ka-f, User-khor, Utu Female Common: Beket, Hen-he-net, Meryet, Nebet, Nefert-ari, Nofret, Senbet, Ta-kha’et Standard: ‘Anch’ere, A-tu,Aaht-ahu, Aat, Abar,Ama, Ankh-nes-pepi, Anqet-tat-t, Apu, Asenath, Bakht-uer-nel, Beket, Ber-ner-ib, Bet, Bu-nefer, Ha-nefer, Hap-shep-sut, Hat-shepset, Hat-shepu, Hemu, Hen-he-net, Hent, Hent-er-neheh, Hent-mi-heb, Hent-ta-mehu, Henut-sen, Henut-tawy, Hun, Iput, Iset, Iuput, Ka-pes, Ka-ramat, Ka-uit, Kam, Kama, Karos, Kero-mame, Kha-mer-em-ebty, Khent.kau-es, Kiya, Mehet-en-usekh, Mehtem-wes-khet, Mer-es-ankh, Mereret, Meri-s-ankh, Meri-tat-es, Meris, Meryet, Mut-emwa, Neb-ant, Neb-atef, Neb-et-tawy, Neb-pu, Nebet, Nebet-em-nub, Nebt-tawy, Nefer-hotep, Nefer-thi, Nefert, Nefert-ari, Nefert-iri, Neferu, Nefret-iti, Nefru, Nekebet, Nemathap, Nena, Netches-ankh, Niyt-aqert, Nodjme, Nodjmet, Nofret, Nub-em-heb, Nub-em-khu, Nub.khas, Nub-khe-sed, Ri-n-an, Ro-ant, Satati, Senbet, Seneb-ib, Seneb-sen, Ta-biry, Ta-her, Ta-kha’et, Ta-sheri, Ta-uosret, Tak-her-eden.eset, Tat-ti-tes, Tem, Tent-opet, Tentheta, Tentsai, Teti-sherit, Ti’a, Tiye, Tua-nefert, Tuya, Udjeb-ten, Ueret-im-tes, Uiay, Usekh-mehi Theophoric Names The familiar Greek names of Egyptian deities (Anubis, Hathor, Form a name from two elements. Roll d4: (1-3) prefix + deity, (4) Horus, Isis, Neith, Nephthys, Ra, Thoth) are not necessarily the deity + suffix. Example names: Mery + Re = Mery-re (Beloved of ones used in names (Anpu, Het-heru, Heru, Aset, Niyt, Nebt-het, Re), Amen + hotep = Amenhotep (Amun is Pleased); Mery-Re, Tehuti). Re and Amun were the most popular. Generic terms netjeru, Beloved of the Gods. A name might (1 in 30) contain the for god or gods (Netjer, Netjeru) were also used. As well as or names of two gods: if so, add the other in anywhere, as in Nakht.instead of deities, terms were used like soul, life, truth, heart, Sebek-Set, Nut-ka-Re, or Re-Sebek-hotep. strength, or beauty (ka, ankh, maat, ib, nakht, nefer), for instance, in Shepses-ka-re, Noble is the soul of Re. Some elements are confined to one sex: Si- (son of) is male-only;  female-only. The element ‘et’ was also usually feminine,  Sit- (daughter of), and -irdis, -nefert, -nodjmet, and -nofret are  especially as an ending.  Prefix  Common: Maat-ka-, Mer-en-, Meri-, Meryet-, Nefer-ka-, Sankh-ib-, Setep-en-, Si-/Sit.Simple:An-, Ba-, Bek-, Djed-, Her-, Iri-, Ka-, Khaf-, Kheper-, Khu-, Mer-, Meri-, Merit-, Mery-, Meryet-, Meryt-, Mi-, Nakhtu-, Neb-, Nefer-, Neferu-, Neha-, Netchem-, Pa-, Pai-, Pedu-, Pepi-, Sahu-, Sekhem-, Se-, Sen-, Shepses-, Si-/Sit-, Ta-, Ur-, User-Compound: A-ka-ne-, A-kheper-, A-kheper-en-, A-kheper-ka-, A-kheperu-, Akh-en-, Akh-heb-, Akhen-en-, Ankh-es-en-, Ankh-es-en.pa-, Ankh-es-meri-, Ankh-ka-, Ankh-ka-en-, Ankh-kheperu-, Ankh-nes-mery-, Au-ib-, Autu-ib-, Ba-ka-, Ba-nen-, Bau-f-, Bek-en-, Bek.et-, Djed-ef-, Djed-ka-, Djed-nefer-, Djeser-ka-, Djeser-kheperu-, Hen-uten-, Hen-utmi-, Her-i-, Her-ib-, Hotep-her-, Hotep-hi-, Hotep.ib-, Ka-ankh-, Ka-meri-, Kha-ankh-, Kha-em-, Kha-hotep-, Kha-ka-, Kha-kau-, Kha-kheper-, Kha-kheru-, Kha-nefer-, Kheb-neferu-, Kheper-ka-, Kheper-kheperu-, Kheper-maat-, Khnem-ib-, Khu-en-, Maat-ib-, Maat-ka-, Maat-kheru-, Maat-men-, Maat-neb-, Men.kau-, Men-kheper-, Men-kheper-en-, Men-kheperu-, Men-maat-, Men-ne-, Men-pehti-, Mer-en-, Mer-hetep-, Mer-hotep-, Mer-kau-, Mer-ne-, Mer-nefer-, Mer-sekhem-, Mer-tefa-, Mer-user-, Mery-en-, Mery-ib-, Mery-kau-, Neb-ef-autu-, Neb-hetep-, Neb-ka-, Neb.kau-, Neb-kheper-, Neb-khepesh-, Neb-kher-, Neb-maat-, Neb-pehtet-, Neb-pehti-, Neb-sen-, Neb-tefa-, Nefer-f-, Nefer-ib-, Nefer-ka-, Nefer-kau-, Nefer-kheperu-, Neferir-ka-, Nefert-em-khu-, Netchem-ib-, Ni-ankh-, Ni-kha-ni-maat-, Ni-maat-, Ni-user-, Nub-kau-, Nub.kheper-, Nub-maat-, Pa-e-, Pa-nefemtu-, Pa-ur-, Pef-tot-, Pi-ankh-, Puti-pe-, Rekh-mi-, Sankh-ib-, Sankh-ka-, Sankh-nefer-, Se-heb-, Se.hetep-ib-, Se-hetep-ib-en-, Se-hotep-ib-, Se-hotep-ka-, Se-kha-en-, Se-kheper-en-, Se-men-, Se-nakht-en-, Se-nefer-, Se-tut-, Se-user.en-, Sekhem-, Sekhem-ka-, Seqen-en-, Ser-ka-, Ser-kheperu-, Setep-en-, Seti-em-pa-, Shepses-ka-, Sotep-en-, Sut-en-, Swadj-, Swadj.ka-, Swah-en-, Tach-nem-, Tas-hed-, Tat-f-, Tat-ka-, Tat-kher-, Tat-kheru-, Ten-t-, Tut-ankh-, U-tcha-, Ua-hem-ib-, Ua-ib-, Ua-ka-, Ua.ro-, User-en-, User-ka-, User-maat-Deity Common: Aah, Amun, Heru, Het-heru, Mentu, Mut, Ptah, Re God: Aah, Aapep, Amun (Amen, Amon), Anpu, Bes, Hapi, Heru (Hor), Khensu, Kheper, Khonsu, Khnum, Mentu, Min, Nefer-Temu, Ptah, Re, Re-Amun, Seb, Sebek, Seker, Set (Seth, Sutekh), Shu, Tehuti + Netjer, Netjeru Goddess: Anuket, Aset (Iset), Bast (Bastet), Het-heru, Maat, Mut, Nekheb, Nebt-het, Niyt, Nut, Sekhmet Suffix Common: -em-hat, -her-khopesh-f, -hotep, -mose, -en-seneb, -nakht, -neferu, -nofret Simple: -a, -aha, -amu, -hotep, -i, -ia, -irdis, -kha, -khau, -khet, -khu, -mas, -mose, -nakht, -neb, -nefer, -nefert, -neferu, -nodjmet, -nofre, -nofret, -seneb, -shep, -shepses, -sheri, -suten, -tifi, -tuya, -u, -uben, -usha Compound: -em-an, -em-ant, -em-hat, -em-heb, -em-het, -em-kheb, -em-nesu, -em-opet, -em-sa-f, -em-sau-f, -em-ua, -en-maat, -en-nes, .en-sau-f, -en-seneb, -her-khopesh-f, -her-pa-me-sha, -i-seneb, -khu-nes, -khuefu-i, -per-ib-sen, -rekh-nefer, -se-kheper, -ta-sherit, -tat.baba, -tot-f, -ut-ankh-es The supreme ruler or king was the Pharaoh (a Greek word; from the Egyptian per-ao, great house), and his chief minister was the Vizier (tjaty). Pharaohs had a string of names and titles. One title given in various forms on accession was either Nesu-bity (King of Upper and Lower Egypt) or Neb-tawy (Lord of two lands), followed by the name of the sun god, as in Neb-tawy-re. Occasionally royal epithets could end up very long, as in Iwa-en-pa-netjer-en-ti-nehem-setpen-ptah-iri-mery-re-sekhem-ankh-amun (heir of the god that saves, chosen of Ptah, carrying out the rule of Re, living image of Amun). To create such a name, simply string together a few ordinary theophorics. Amerindian Depending on the era, the many tribes native to the North American continent have been called or have called themselves Indians, Red Indians, North American Indians, Amerindians, and Native Americans. The tribes have related naming patterns, but speak different tongues: there are some 50 language families alone. A selection of names is given here from a few tribes. After European settlement, settlers’ names were adopted, even bought, and native names translated from the tribal tongue, used as family names, or both (‘Geronimo’ is Spanish, for instance). These days, many Indians use standard English names, but native-language and translation names often appear. Chief Sam Churchill’s wife might be Jenny Sleeping Owl, and they might equally well call their daughter Mary, Cedar, orAraminta. Modern Indian naming patterns are the same as those for English: one or more personal names (usually one) followed by a (possibly compound) family name, for example, Nokoni Red Cloud. Any or all parts could be native, translated, or European. Further back in the past, personal names alone would have been used. Male Personal Names Many names were to do with the natural world or actions, describing character, activities, fauna, weather, appearances, or incidents. For instance, in translation: Sitting Bull, Black Hawk, Thunder Rolling in the Hills, Walks Like a Bear, Eldest Daughter, Crazy Horse Woman. These could change later in life; the Iroquois and Sioux, for instance, named children temporarily by birth order until a better name presented itself (although ‘Winona’ could be retained by an eldest daughter). Names could be awarded for deeds, prowess, memorable events, and so on. Most names could equally well be applied to males or females. Some themes (beauty, flowers, water) were chiefly female, though. A common practice in some tribes was to add a ‘woman’ component (such as Sioux ‘-wee’, Delaware ‘-echkway’) to a name used by a female, most often when the name was short (Shell Woman, Eagle Woman, and so on). Pronunciation To pronounce the names, just break them into syllables, giving each more or less the same stress: some are hyphenated already where so recorded. These names are mostly phonetic transcrip.tions, so in general all the letters or letter combinations should be pronounced, even a final ‘e’ (usually pronounced ‘eh’). Algonquin:Annawon, Opachisko, Powhatan, Samaset, Samoset, Tekonsha, Waunake, Wusamequin Apache:Askadodilges, Dah-keya, Daklugie, Dasodaha, Dji-li-kine, Eskaminzim, Gardiltha, Goyathlay, Hunlona, Itza-chu, Jlin-Litzoque, Kaahtenay, Kanseah, Kawa, Kaywaykla, Kenoi, Kutli, Mahko, Moh-tsos, Nah-bay, Naiche, Napi, Nodiskey, Quanah, Skinya, Taklishim, Tcha-nol-haye, Toclanny, Tsisnah, Ulzana, Yahnozha Cherokee:Ah-le-chah, Ahtelohe, Ahtola, Atagulkalu, Cahinahe, Che-te-qui, Chea Sequah, Chee-la-na-hee, Cholukee, Chukute, Chusalete, Chutogaste, Chuwanoske, Cla, Degataga, Diwali, Diyahlana, Echuchu, Galegina, Ganundalegi, Gugaytu, Ieyuste, Kanugee, Kenletah, Ketlechule, Kullageenah, Kusunne, Mohe, Nah-hool, Ne-coo-tie, Nertah-we-hah, Nunna Hidihi, Okohimunt, Ooknale, Oonatage, Oukonunaka, Sawam, Sequoyah, Sinagooyah, Tagotah, Tamela Pashme, Tekahtunas, To-she-wa, Tsiyi, Tsiyu-Gunsini, Ummarteskee, Wa-la-na-tah, Waya, Yartunnah, Zonawene Chippewa: Bemidji, Gahzaw-que-dung, Gict-eegaw-ga-osh, Ka-bes-kunk, Kahgegwagebow, Manabozho, Na-pow-sa, Okemos, Ot-ta.wa Choctaw:Ahaikahno, Chata, Chikk-bulilih-chia, Chula, Ha-tchoq-tuck-nee, Kiliahote, Koi, Minco, Mo-sho-la-tub-bee, Neshoba, Tullock-chish-ko Delaware: Buchongahelas, Gelelemend, Hopocan, Idquahon, Mahinga Keeshoch, Mameckus, Moosh-hah-kwee-nund, Nee-ko-man, Oshemahamon, Papunkank, Popotakan, Sachimak, Shingas, Tamaque, Tay-men-end, Tepakoaset, Yaqueenkhon Eskimo:Aisivak, Akalayok, Baral, Hanseeraq, Itukuchuk, Loseeosee, Nanook, Norsaq, Nuqaq, Qayak, Tanuchulk, Tusilartoq Iroquois: Chingachgook, Deganawida, Ganeodiyo, Garakonthie, Gawasowaneh, Gyantwaka, Hadawa’ko, Hiawatha, Otetiani, Thayendanegea Nez Percé:Allahkoliken, Chuslum, Gosawyiennight, Hee-ohks-te-kin, Heinmot Ilppilp, Heinmot Tosinlikt, Hemene, Hinmaton-Yalakit, Hohots Ilppilp, Kitstsui Shamkin, Koolkool Snehee, Lahpatupt, Netotwepus, Pahkatos, Sahkonteic Navaho:Aditshah,Ashkii Dighin,Atsidi, Beshiltheeni, Bisahalani, Godì Tso’, Hashkeh Ikìzhì, Hashkeh Naabah, Keewatin, Kilchii, Klah, Na Binnleeth, Nakai, Sani, Tahoma, Toh-yah, Tsela Sioux:Akecheta, Angpetu-Tokecha, Canowicakte, Cetanwakuwa, Chaska, Enapay, Eyanosa, Huya-Na, Ishna Witca, Kangi Sunka, Kohana, Mahkah, Mahpee, Makhpia-Sha, Mankato, Maspera Mohe, Mato Watakpe, Matohinsda, Matoskah, Odakota, Ohanzee, Ohiyesa, Shappa, Sintay Galeska, Sinte Maza, Tahatan, Takoda, Tashunka, Tashunka Witko, Tasunke, Tatank’amimi, Tatanka Iyotanka, Tatanka Ptecila, Tatonga, Wahnahtah, Wakoyantanke, Wambleeska, Waneta, Wapasha, Wasechun Tashunk, Wicahpi Isnala Others: Ah-shw-wah-rooks-te, Auh-ka-na-paw-wah, Cameahwait, Ee-shah-ko-nee, Ee-tow-o-kaum, Elskwatawa, Garakonthie, Gichita, Gitch-ee-ga-osh, Go-to-kow-pah-a, Goyathlay, Hah-nee, Heome, Hoo-wan-ee-kaw, Hotoanamos, Humaweepi, Is-a-roh-yeh, Ka-be.mub-be, Ke-chim-qua, Kee-mo-ra-ni-a, Kiwe’gapawa, Kiyiya, Kots-ah-to-ah, Kusinut, Lalawethika, Ma-shee-na, Mah-to-toh-pa, Mash-kee-wet, Men-son-se-ah, Miatonomo, Minimic, Molimo, Nah-se-us-kuk, Nah-pow-sa, Naw-kaw, Ni-a-co-mo, No-way-ke-sug.ga, Nom-ba-mon-nee, Notch-ee-ning-a, Opitchapan, Pah-ta-coo-che, Quay-ham-kay, Sha-wa-no, Shon-da-ki-he-ga, Ta-wa-que-nah, Tah-gah-jute, Tawaquaptewa, Thayendanegea, Tiskayai, Tod-hah-dohs, Ush-ee-kitz, Wa-kon-chash-kaw, Wa-pon-je-a, Wa-saw-me.saw, Washakie, Wawasha, We-ke-ru-law, Wy-ee-yogh, Yeokeoma Female Personal Names Algonquin: Ekalaka, Mahwah, Matowaka, Menasha, Odina, Pocahontas, Shaningo, Winne-comac, Wyome Apache: Alopay, Bi-ya-neta, Chee-hash-kish, Cumpah, Dilth-cley-ih, Dohn-say, Dos-teh-seh, E-clah-heh, Guyan, Ha-o-zinne, Hah.dun-key, Hah-dun-key, Icimanipi-Wihopawin, Ih-tedda, Ish-keh, Ishton, Nah-de-yole, Nah-dos-te, Nah-thle-tla, Nal-tzuk-ich, Nalin, Nana-tha-thtith, Nohchlon, She-gha, Shtsha-she, Sonsee-array, Sousche, Sy-e-konne, Tah-das-te, Tzes-ton, U-go-hun, Zi-yeh Cherokee: Adsila, Ah-nee-yoh, Ahawi, Ahuwewega, Ahyokah, Aki, Ama, Aniwaki, Araminta, Aryahmula, Awinita, Catayah, Che-kah.nae, Checoowa, Cheyoka, Choweyuka, Chunyuku, Cootiya, Daka, Galilani, Gayacha, Ghigau, Hiawassee, Huetiyah, Immokalee, Inola, Kah-no-lie, Kahoka, Kayohe, Knasgowa, Lahtiye, Minta, Mohewee, Nakee, Nanye-hi, Ootahye, Ooyoste, Quah-le-yu-kah, Salali, Sittuna, Sthaga, Sulah, Tahyoneh, Taki, Tennessee, Tookah, Tsistunagiska, Tsula, Wah-ne-nah, Wakie Chippewa: Ju-ah-kis-gaw, Mitena, Neche, Nahcomis, Onaiwah, Shawan Choctaw: Byhalia, Coahoma, Isi, Kinta, Oklewona, Owanah, Opa, Osyka, Panola, Talulah, Tula Delaware: Allammatta-echkway, Awp-pah-tah-eh, Lay-huh-law-kwun-ah-ta-ech-kway, Mah-mah-lee-loong-gaw-nech-kway, Pingtis, Po-na-kah-ko-wah, Sahkataechkway, Sawm-chkway,Tammany, Way-en-dah-nah-hkwee-now, Way-en-gee-pah-hkee-huh-lech-kway, Waylaylumah, Weh-mah-tah-ech-kway, Wool-lee-nowch-kway Eskimo: Anauta, Avdla, Eevic, Katsoo, Koodloo, Liak, Millaaraq, Noayak, Pitseolak, Pitsualak, Slwooko, Ticasuk Iroquois: Degonwadonti, Genesee, Geneseo, Gennisheyo, Jigonhsasee, Minnehaha, Nokomis, Oheo, Oniatario, Sheauga, Watch-e.kee Navaho: Adzaan-Tsinahinnie, Altsoba, Anaba, Dezba, Doli, K’heehabah, Kai, Nanabah, Nascha, Yanaha Nez Percé: Ealahweemah, Elaskolatat, Hahtalekin, Hallalhotsoot, Hoyouwerlikt, Husis Moxmox, Inen Toxxouke, Lepeet Hessemooks, Motsqueh, Peopeo Hihhih, Peopeo Kiskiok Hihih, Peopeo Tholekt, Toohulhulsote, Wahchumyus, Zya Timenna Sioux:Angpetu, Chapa, Chapawee, Chlumani, Dowanhowee, Ehawee, Eyota, Gdhedanstemin, Hantaywee, Kimimela, Magaskawee, Makawee, Maoneka, Mapiya, Mina, Minnekadawn, Ptaysanwee, Sacagawea, Tahcawin, Talutah, Tasina Sapewin, Tateyohnakewastewin, Wachiwi, Wahchintonka, Warcaziwin, Washta, Wasula, Weayaya, Wehinahpay, Wichapi, Wichapi Isnala, Wichapi Wakan, Wih-munke Wakan, Wihakayda, Winona, Witashnah, Wiyaka-Wastewin, Zitkala, Zitkala-sa, Zonta, Zuzela Others: Ah-tee-wot-o-mee, Anahareo, Au-wah-shew-kew, Awashonks, Bo-i-naiv, Cogewea, Cousaonakeesa, Dalottiwa, Duvangyamasi, Ehyophsta, Geieish, He’-e’-e’, Ho’ko, Hoistah, Hum-ishu-ma, Hwistaks, Inshtatheamba, Ju-ah-kis-gaw, Ka-te-qua, Kah-kee-tsee, Kahn Tineta, Matoaka, Me-cheet-e-neuh, Me-o-tze, Mi-neek-e-sunk-te-ka, Mini-aku, Minia, Mochi, Monasetah, Nalin, Neenah, Neneoshaweg, Pohaha, Polingaysi, Poweshiek, Sah-gan-de-oh, Sanapia, Sevenka, Shawan, She-de-a, She-nah-we, Sinopa, Stetsa-kata, Tekahionwake, Thoc-me-to-ne, Tis-see-woo-na-tis, Topasannah, Tsa-ka-ka-wias, Tsaka’kasakic, Tuhbenahneeguay, Wa.quo-tha-qua, Wah-pe-seh-see, Waheenee, Waiyautitsa, Walemquela, Weetamoo, Wi-ne-ma, Wun-pan-to-mee, Yoimut Family Names Family names were not used prior to European settlement. These days most such names will be European family names or, most commonly, translation names. (See the Translation Names section for examples.) The Eskimo (Inuit) people have kept a number of former personal names in use as family names. Eskimo:Aipellee, Aknavigak, Ihorcheak, Kaludjak, Kusugak, Makigak, Nutaraq, Paniyuk, Pilakapsi, Qavuvu, Sammurtok, Saumik, Suwaksiork, Tologanak, Tselihye, Ulujuk, Umingmak, Qaavigaaq Tribe Names Some of the largest current tribal groupings are Cherokee (Tsalagi), Navaho, Chippewa/Ojibwa (in US/Canada), Sioux, Choctaw, Pueblo, Apache, Iroquois, Lumbee, Creek, Blackfoot, Chickasaw, Potawatomi, Tohono, Pima, Tlingit, Seminole, Athabaskan, Cheyenne, Comanche, Paiute, Salish, Yaqui, Osage, Kiowa, Delaware, Shoshone, Crow, and Cree. There are or were many other tribes and tribal groupings, including Algonquin, Anasazi, Arapaho, Arikara, Cayuse, Chinook, Chumash, Coos, Dakota, Eskimo (Inuit), Fox, Haida, Hidatsa, Hokan, Hopi, Huron, Iowa, Kalispel, Kickapoo, Klamath, Luisena, Mandan, Mesquakie, Miami, Micmac, Miwok, Mohave, Mohawk, Montauk, Muskogean, Narragansett, Nez Percé, Niwok, Omaha, Oto, Pawnee, Penute, Pequot, Pocasset, Sarcee, Sauk, Seneca, Shawnee, Spokane, Tionantati, Tupi, Ute, Wanapum, Winnebago, Aztec (Nahuatl) Wyandot, Yakima, Yavapai, and Zuni. Some groups of tribes (for instance, Mandan, Hidatsa, Arikara) are affiliated in Indian ‘nations’. The Aztecs (who called themselves the Mexica) arrived in the Valley of Mexico about the start of the 13th century, and were dominant by the 15th century. Their language was Nahuatl, which had been spoken by other related peoples in the area from Mexico to Yucatán since the 4th century. Spanish-led native armies ended their bloody reign in the 16th century. The names here can be used for the Aztecs, other Nahuatl peoples (including the Aztecs’ overthrowers), and the Toltecs, whose empire lasted three centuries prior to their reign. Personal names only were used. Not many female names were recorded, and most simply referred to birth order (first born, Male Personal Names younger sister, and so on). If you need more female names, just use male ones: most were vocabulary items (lizard, flower, rabbit, blue-green feather, obsidian snake) which could as well apply to females. The -tzin ending was for nobles, not royalty or commoners, and can be dropped for the latter. Pronunciation Take the longer names slowly! Accent is on the penultimate syllable. The /x/ is a /sh/ sound. The /tl/ has a short unstressed vowel, as in ‘battle’. The /c/ is hard, except before /e/ or /i/. The / a/ is short, as in ‘cat’. The /e/ rhymes with ‘hey’ even when it ends a word. The /chu/ is a /cw/, as is the /cu/ before a vowel; the /hu/ is a /w/, as is the /u/ before other vowels; and the /uh/ is a /wh/. The /z/ is an /s/ before ‘a’ or ‘o’. Common: Coatl, Matlal, Matlalihuitl, Nochehuatl, Quauhtli, Tochtli, Tototl, Xochitl, Yaotl, Zolin Standard:Acacitli, Acamapichtli,Acxotecatl,Ahuitzotl, Amantalan,Apanacatl,Axayaca, Axayacatl,Axayactaztin, Axolohua, Axoquentzin, Cacama, Cacamatzin, Cahuecahua, Caltzontzin, Chichimecatecle, Chihuaquequenotzin, Chimalpahin, Chimalpopoca, Cipactli, Citlacoatl, Citlalpopocatzin, Coanacoch, Coatl, Cocozca, Copil, Cuauhtemoc, Cuapan, Cuatlazol, Cuaucoatl, Cuautemoc, Cuautlehuanitzin, Cuetzpalli, Cuitlahuac, Cuitlalpitoc, Cuitlauac, Cuixtli, Ecatzin, Eyahue, Hecateupatiltzin, Huemac, Huetzin, Huitzilihuitl, Ilhuicamina, Itzcoatl, Itzcuahuatzin, Ixtlilxochitl, Iztahuatzin, Itzquemitl, Macuilxochitl, Matlal, Matlalihuitl, Maxixcatzin, Maxtla, Mazatl, Miahuaxochitl, Mixcoatl, Moquihuix, Motecuhzoma, Motelchiuh, Nauyotl, Nezahualcoyotl, Nezahualpilli, Nezahualquentzin, Nochehuatl, Ocuitecatl, Ollin, Ometochtl, Opochtli, Opochtzin, Oquitzin, Panitzin, Pinotl, Pizotzin, Pochotl, Popopoyotl, Quahcoatl, Quahtlatoa, Quauhpopoca, Quauhtlehuanitzin, Quauhtli, Techolatlallatzin, Tecocoltzin, Tecpanecatl, Temilotecatl, Temilotzin, Temoctzin, Teputzitoloc, Tetlahuehuequititzin, Tetlanmecatl, Tetlepanquetzaltizin, Tetzauhpilzintli, Textlipitl, Tezozomoc, Tizoc, Tlacaelel, Tlacahuepan, Tlacantzolli, Tlacateotl, Tlacaelel, Tlacochcalcatl, Tlacoteotzin, Tlacotzin, Tlalchiac, Tlaltececatzin, Tlapaltecatl, Tlaquiach, Tlilpopoctazin, Tlilpotonqui, Tlotzin, Tochtli, Tohil, Topantemoc, Topiltzin, Totoquihuatzin, Tototl, Tzilacatzin, Tziuacpopocatzin, Tzompan, Tzotzomatzin, Tzoyectzin, Tzuitecatl, Xiconocatzin, Xicotencatl, Xilotzin, Xiucaque, Xiucozcatl, Xochipanitzin, Xochipepe, Xochitl, Xocoyol, Xolotl, Xoxopehualoc, Yaomahuitzin, Yaotl, Yolcouatl, Zolin Female Personal Names Common: Centehua, Cihuaton, Necahual, Teicuih, Tepin, Teyacapan, Tlaco, Tlacoehua, Xoco, Xocoyotle Standard:Acaxochitl, Anacaona,Atototl, Atotoztli, Ayauhcihuatl, Azcalxochitzin, Azcalxochizin, Cacamacihuatzin, Cacauaxochitl, Cacomistl, Centehua, Chalchiuitl, Chalchiutinenetzin, Chimalman, Cihuaton, Citlalmina, Coaxoch, Coszcatl, Cozamalotl, Cuetlaxochitl, Cuicatl, Cuitlaxaochitzin, Eloxochitl, Huipele, Huitzilxochtzin, Ichtilmatli, Icnocuicatl, Iczoxochitl, Ilancueitl, Ixcatzin, Izel, Izquixochitl, Malinal, Malinalxochitl, Malinche, Malintzin, Matlacihuatl, Miahuaxiuitl, Miyahuaxiuhtzin, Miyaoaxochitl, Mizquixaual, Necahual, Nenetl, Nopalxochitl, Noxochicoztli, Omixochitl, Oxomoc, Papan, Papantzin, Quauhxochitl, Quetzal, Quetzalxochitl, Quiauhxochitl, Tacapantzin, Tecuelhuatzin, Tecuichpo, Teicuih, Teotalco, Tepin, Teuicui, Teyacapan, Tiacapan, Tiacapantzin, Tlaco, Tlacoehua, Tlacotl, Tlacoxochitl, Tlalli, Tlazohtzin, Tlillocapantin, Tonalnan, Tziquetzalpoztectzin, Uacalxochitl, Xiloxoch, Xiloxochitl, Xiomara, Xiuhtonal, Xochicotzin, Xochiquetzal, Xochiyotl, Xoco, Xocoyotle, Xuchimatzatzin, Yacotzin, Yolihuani, Yoloxochitl, Yoltzin, Zeltzin Inca (Quechua) The Incas were one of a group of Quechua-speaking tribes in the Andes (including Chachapoya, Chanca, Charcas, Chichas, Huarica, Inca, Lupaca, Moyo, Quechua, Yarivilca). They established a capital in what is now Peru in the 12th century, and began a rapid and successful series of conquests in the early 15th century. Their empire (Tawantinsuyu, ‘Land of the Four Quarters’) extended along the Pacific coast and Andean highlands. It was controlled with the aid of a vast network of roads, along which relays of runners could carry knotted-cord messages up to 150 miles a day. The Spanish arrived amid a struggle for succession in the 16th century, and conquered the empire relatively easily. Male Personal Names Personal names only were used. Most names were vocabulary items such as animals, plants, and flowers. The word Inca was often used as part of the names of emperors, but was not a title. Apo meant lord but could be part of a normal name. Mama could be added to the name of any married woman. Pronunciation Accent is on the penultimate syllable. The /ll/ sounds like /ly/. The /c/ is hard, except before /e/ or /i/. The /a/ is short, as in ‘cat’. The /e/ rhymes with ‘hey’ even when it ends a word. The / i/ is a long /ee/ sound, and /o/ and /u/ are also long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ respectively. Ancaullo, Apo, Atahualpa, Atoc, Atoc Runi Soncco, Atoc Sopa, Atoc Suqui, Auqui Huaman, Canchari, Capac Atoc, Capac Tupac, Capac Yupanqui, Cariapata, Cayo Topa, Chalcuchima, Challco, Chiaquitinta, Chiguan Topa, Chilche, Chunchos, Colla Topa, Curi Paucar, Curiatao, Guacra, Guaman Poma, Guaritito, Guaritopa, Huachuri, Hualpa, Huaman, Huaman Capac, Huaman Chava, Huaritico, Huascar, Huayna Capac, Huaypalcon, Illa, Illaquita, Inquill, Ispaca, Llicllic, Maila, Manco, Manco Capac, Maras, Marcavilca, Mayta, Mayta Capac, Ninan Cuyuchi, Ninancoro, Orco Varanca, Pachacuti, Pachacuti Yupanqui, Parinango, Pascac, Paucar, Paullu, Poma, Pomacapi, Pomaguala, Puca Llama, Pumi Sopa, Puya Caxa, Puyu Vilca, Quilaco, Quille, Quispe Titu, Quispe Tupac, Quisquis, Quizo, Rimac, Roca, Ronpa, Ruminavi, Sahuaraura, Sayri Tupac, Sullca Yanac, Suna, Taipi, Tanpulla Apo Hualpaca, Tanqui, Taraque, Tiso, Titu Atauchi, Titu Cusi, Topa Yupanqui, Tucuycuyche, Tupac, Tupac Amaru, Tupac Hualpa, Usca Curiatao, Uturuncu, Villac Umu, Viracocha Inca, Yamqui Mayta, Yuncailo, Yupanqui Female Personal Names Anahuarque, Anas Collque, Anta Anccla, Azca, Cari, Cari Topa, Cava, Caya Cuzco, Chacapoya, Chic’ya, Chimbo Aca, Chimbo Occlo, Chimbo Urma, Chimpu, Chimpu Ocllo, Choque Suyo, Chumbi Carua, Chuquillanto, Cicllallay, Cuca, Cuci Uarcay, Cura Ocllo, Curi Illpay, Curicuillor, Inguill, Machi, Manco Carua, Marca Chimbo, Micay, Mullo, Ocllo, Ozcollo, Pillcu Huaco, Pillcu Ziza, Pinca Huaco, Pisco, Polan Quilaco, Quenti, Quispe Cusi, Quispe Sisa, Rava Ocllo, Runtu, Siza Ocllo, Toctollssica, Uritu, Urpi, Ussun, Yaci, Yutu Mayan of Uayeb (‘the evil days’, a time of misfortune at year’s end). Honduras, and their descendents still inhabit the Yucatán. In The Mayans lived in what is today Mexico, Guatemala, and The Mayans had no family names. Their personal names were their classic period, from the 3rd to the 9th century, they built formed from a number of stock vocabulary elements, which large ceremonial centres; these were abandoned by the 10th could include a day or month from the calendar. Most elements century, but their massive pyramids still survive. The Mayan could be used for either sex. language, known from their sculptured glyphs, is only partially understood. Glyphs could have various meanings depending on Pronunciation context, and not all associated sounds are known. More is Accent is on the penultimate syllable. The /x/ is a /sh/ sound. known about their calendar. The Mayan calendar (really two The /c/ is always hard. The /k/ is a throaty /kh/. The /a/ is short, interlocking calendars) was based on a ritual period of 260 days: as in ‘cat’. The /i/ is a long /ee/ sound, and /o/ and /u/ are also 20 day names attached to 13 numbers in a 52-year cycle. To keep long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ respectively. The /e/ rhymes with in line with the seasons, each year had 18 months and the 5 days ‘hey’ even when it ends a word. Personal Names To generate a base Mayan name, first determine the number of elements in the name. Roll d20: one (1-3), two (4-14), three (15-19), four (20). Then choose and hyphenate the parts from the lists. For example, some genuine Mayan names include Xoc, Balam, U-Xix-Chan, Pacal-Balam, Cu-Ix, Hun-Kax, and Ti-Kan-Toc. To the name was added the male prefix Ah or the female prefix Ix to identify the sex of the bearer. So a brother and sister might be called Ah-Nab-Balam and Ix-Nab-Balam. Some other elements are confined to one sex: Yum and Tecutli (ruler, master) are male-only; Colel and Ciuatl (woman, mistress) are female-only. Common: Balam, Can, Chan, Ek, Muyal, Nucuch, Pacal, Tzek Numbers: Bolon, Buluc, Can, Hunab, Lahun, Ome, Oxlahun, Tun, Wac, Waxac, Wuc (Baktun, Calabtun, Katun, Kinchiltun, Pictun) Standard:Ac,Ahau, Ahpu, Ain,Akab, Baat, Bac, Bacha, Balam, Balche, Batz, Bil, Butz, Ca, Cab, Cacaw, Can, Cauac, Ceh, Chaan, Chac, Chacal, Chan, Chanil, Chel, Chicin, Chuen, Chuy, Cimi, Cit, Ciuatl, Co, Coh, Colel, Colop, Cu, Ek, Ha, Habin, Hadz, Hel, Hok, Hom, Hub, Hubil, Hun, Ik, Ikal, Imix, Itzam, Kaax, Kai, Kak, Kan, Kanal, Katun, Kawil, Kayam, Ke, Kin, Kinich, Kitza, Kuk, Kuknab, Kul, Kun, Lac, Lakin, Le, Lelem, Mac, Mam, Mayel, Mo, Moch, Muan, Mul, Multun, Muluc, Muyal, Na, Nab, Ne, Noh, Nohol, Nucuch, Oc, Ocote, Otot, Ox, Pac, Pacal, Pec, Pek, Pik, Sac, Sastun, Suhuy, Ta, Tah, Tahal, Te, Tecutli, Ti, Toc, Ton, Tox, Tu, Tul, Tun, Tutul, U, Uich, Ul, Uo, Wa, Wac, Way, Xaman, Xib, Xiu, Xix, Xob, Xoc, Xtz’utun, Xul, Xux, Yat, Yax, Yaxal, Yaxche, Yaxun, Yol, Yum, Zac, Zacal, Zotz, Zutz Days:Ahau, Akbal, Ben, Caban, Cauac, Chiccan, Chuen, Cib, Cimi, Eb, Etz’nab, Ik, Imix, Ix, Kan, Lamat, Manik, Men, Muluc, Oc Months: Ceh, Ch’en, Cumku, Kankin, Kayab, Mac, Mol, Muan, Pax, Pop, Tzec, Uayeb, Uo, Xul, Yax, Yaxkin, Zac, Zip, Zotz Chinese The Han (native Chinese) have had inheritable family names since the 4th century. About 90% of Chinese use the 100 most common of the 3000-odd family names, but personal names show great variety, since name elements are vocabulary items. Names have changed little over the centuries. There are elements commonly used by one sex or the other (honour to ancestors, heroism, success, and virility for males; composure, beauty, birds, and jewels for females), but most elements (notably flowers) can equally well be used by both. Han Chinese is a language family, with one script of single-syllable characters, but eight spoken languages (each with its own dialects). Mandarin is the most widely used of these, and the names here are in that form. China has over 50 ethnic minorities as well as the Han, with different languages or dialects. The traditional pattern is three names, usually of one syllable: the family name followed by a two-part personal name. The compound personal name contains a generational name shared by most siblings of one generation, then a second unique to each person. The elements (syllables) of personal names should be hyphenated. For example, Wang Hwai-ching has a family name of Wang and a personal name of Hwai-ching. His son and daughter might be known as Wang Pei-wen and Wang Pei-ying, for instance (where Pei is the generational part of their personal names). There are a few rare two-syllable family names, and single-element names occur when the generation name is not used (a recent trend in China and Taiwan). Chinese may occasionally use the family name last when dealing with Westeners. A married woman retains her maiden name, but may use her husband’s surname in his circle. People are most often referred to by their family names. The modern words for Mr, Mrs, Miss (syan-sheng, tai-tai, syau.zhye) are used after the surname, so Miss Wang would be Wang syau-zhye. One familiar form of address is ‘A’(ah) and the second part of the personal name, so Wang Pei-ying might be called A-ying by her close friends. Younger people don’t call members of an older generation by personal names: to do so is an insult (and was used as such during the Cultural Revolution). Even in the family, children call older siblings eldest sister, second elder brother, (da-zhye, er.ge), and so on. Older persons use the personal names of younger ones, though children could be addressed by birth order (like Charlie Chan’s ‘number one son’), and girls especially could get this as their only personal name (as in Er-ya-tou, ‘number two girl’). Communists used to address each other as ‘comrade’ (tung-jr) and presumably still do. Pronunciation No romanization of Chinese is perfect. The Wade-Giles system is delicately precise, but unintuitive (apostrophes change the value of consonants, for instance, so Ts- sounds like /dz/ but Ts’- sounds like /ts/). The ‘Pin-yin’ system of modern China is harsh and meant for speakers of Russian, not English. The Yale system is the closest to phonetic for English speakers (of, say, Wade-Giles hsiao, Pin-yin xiao, Yale syau, the last is easiest to get right). It is used here, with one addition. The added /zh/ is the soft French /j/; the /j/ is like that in ‘jar’. The /z/ is a slight buzz, and the /r/ is soft, like an indistinct ‘rh’ or ‘ihr’, not as in the rolling piratical “arr, Jim lad”. The /g/ is hard, and the /ch/ is the hard /tch/ that starts chair. The /s/ is sharp, as in ‘kiss’, and /y/ is a semi-consonant, not a vowel. The /a/ is long, as in ‘art’. The /e/ rhymes with that in ‘men’. The /i/, /o/, and /u/ are short if followed, like the vowels in ‘sin’, ‘love’ and ‘hut’, or long when they end syllables, as in ‘tree’, ‘go’ and ‘moon’. The /ai/ rhymes with ‘high’, the /au/ with ‘how’, and the /ei/ with ‘hey’, and the /ou/ with ‘oh’. Neutral vowel forms are shown: tones (high, rising, dipping, falling) can change the meaning of a word, but are quite difficult for non-Chinese. If you get short of names, remember that you can pronounce many syllables in four more ways! Family Names Common: Chen, Feng, Li, Chyan, Swun, Wang, Wu, Jau, Jeng, Jou Standard:Ai,An, Ba, Bai, Ban, Bau, Bei, Ben, Bi, Bing, Bu, Bwo, Byan, Chai, Chang, Chau, Che, Chen, Cheng, Chi, Chin, Chr, Chu, Chyan, Chyang, Chyau, Chyou, Chyu, Chywan, Chywe, Dai, Deng, Di, Ding, Dou, Du, Dung, Dwan, Dyau, Dzan, Dzang, Dzeng, Dzih, Dzou, Dzu, Dzung, Dzwo, E, Fan, Fang, Fei, Feng, Fu, Gan, Gau, Ge, Geng, Gu, Gung, Gwan, Gwang, Gwo, Han, Hang, Hau, He, Hou, Hu, Hung, Hwa, Hwai, Hwan, Hwang, Hwei, Hwo, Ja, Jan, Jang, Jau, Je, Jen, Jeng, Jou, Jr, Ju, Jung, Jwo, Kang, Ke, Kung, Kwei, Lai, Lan, Lang, Le, Lei, Li, Lin, Ling, Lou, Lu, Lung, Lwan, Lwo, Lyan, Lyang, Lyau, Lyou, Ma, Mai, Mau, Mei, Meng, Mi, Min, Ming, Mu, Mwo, Myau, Neng, Ni, Ning, Nye, Nyou, Ou, Pan, Pang, Pei, Peng, Pi, Ping, Pu, Ran, Rau, Ren, Rung, Rwan, Rwei, Sha, Shan, Shang, Shau, Shen, Sheng, Shr, Shu, Shwang, Shwei, Su, Sung, Swo, Swun, Sya, Syan, Syang, Syau, Sye, Syi, Sying, Syu, Syun, Syung, Sywan, Sywe, Szih, Tai, Tan, Tang, Tau, Teng, Ting, Tsai, Tsang, Tsau, Tsen, Tsung, Tswei, Tu, Tung, Tyan, Wan, Wang, Wei, Wen, Weng, Wu, Yan, Yang, Yau, Ye, Yi, Yin, Ying, You, Yu, Yun, Yung, Ywan, Zhi, Zhin, Zhing, Zhya, Zhyang, Zhyau Other: Dzau, Hai, Kwang, Mwo-chi, Ou-yang, Pau, Pu-yang, Szih-ma, Szih-tu, Tan-tai Male Personal Names Choose two elements to form a name (1 in 20 use only one; in recent years, 1 in 6). These selections are typical, but elements can appear in any order. Of the common words, ‘Da’ has two related meanings that could equally well be used, and depend on tone: Dà, big; and Dá, of high position. The elements gwo, gwun, hwa, and min often indicate a modern, revolutionary name, so avoid these for earlier times. Common:An,Au, Chyang, Da, De, Dzu, Dzung, Hwa, Jr, Lung, Ming, Shau, Syung, Tai, Wei, Wen, Wu, Zhin, Zhyan, Zhyu First:A,Ai, An,Au, Bai, Bang, Bau, Bei, Beng, Bi, Bin, Bing, Bu, Bwo, Cha, Chang, Chau, Cheng, Chi, Chin, Ching, Chr, Chung, Chwa, Chwun, Chyan, Chyang, Chyou, Chyu, Chywan, Da, Dai, Dan, Dau, De, Dei, Ding, Dou, Du, Dung, Dwo, Dyan, Dzai, Dzau, Dze, Dzeng, Dzih, Dzu, Dzung, Dzwo, En, Er, Fa, Fang, Fei, Feng, Fu, Fwo, Ga, Gai, Gan, Gang, Gau, Ge, Gei, Geng, Gu, Gung, Gwan, Gwang, Gwei, Gwo, Gwun, Hai, Han, Hang, Hau, He, Hen, Heng, Hou, Hu, Hung, Hwa, Hwai, Hwang, Hwei, Hwo, Jang, Jau, Jen, Jeng, Jr, Ju, Jung, Jwei, Jwo, Ka, Kai, Kan, Kang, Kau, Ke, Keng, Kung, Kwan, Kwang, Kwo, Kwun, Lai, Lan, Lang, Lau, Le, Li, Ling, Lu, Lung, Lwo, Lyan, Lyang, Lye, Lyou, Ma, Man, Mang, Mei, Mi, Min, Ming, Mwo, Ni, Ning, Pang, Pei, Peng, Pi, Pin, Pu, Pwo, Pye, Rang, Ren, Ru, Rung, Rwei, Rwo, Rwun, Sai, San, Se, Shai, Shan, Shang, Shau, Sheng, Shou, Shr, Shu, Su, Sung, Swei, Swun, Syan, Syang, Syau, Sye, Syi, Syin, Sying, Syou, Syu, Syun, Syung, Sywan, Sywe, Szih, Tai, Tan, Ting, Tsai, Tsung, Tu, Tung, Two, Tyan, Wai, Wan, Wang, Wei, Wen, Wu, Yan, Yang, Yau, Ye, Yi, Yin, Ying, You, Yu, Yun, Yung, Ywan, Ywe, Zhi, Zhin, Zhing, Zhya, Zhyan, Zhyang, Zhyau, Zhyou, Zhyu, Zhyun, Zhyung Second: an, au, ba, bai, bang, bau, ben, bin, bing, bwo, chang, chau, che, chen, cheng, chi, chin, ching, chr, chu, chwun, chyan, chyang, chyau, chyu, chywan, chywe, da, dai, dang, dau, de, di, ding, dou, du, dung, dwei, dwo, dye, dze, dzeng, dzih, dzu, dzung, e, en, fa, fan, fang, fei, fen, feng, fu, gai, gan, gang, ge, gung, gwa, gwan, gwang, gwei, gwo, gwun, han, hau, he, hei, heng, hung, hwa, hwai, hwan, hwang, hwei, jan, jang, je, jen, jeng, jou, jr, ju, jung, kai, kan, kang, ku, kwei, la, lai, lan, lang, li, lin, ling, lu, lung, lwo, lwun, lyan, lyang, mei, min, ming, nan, ning, nyan, o, pa, pang, pau, pei, peng, ping, pwo, ren, reng, rung, rwei, rwo, sai, sen, shan, shau, sheng, shr, shu, shwan, shwang, shwo, shwun, sung, swun, sya, syan, syang, syao, syau, syi, syin, sying, syou, syun, syung, sywan, sywe, szih, ta, tai, tang, tau, ti, tou, tsai, tsung, tsz, tu, tung, twei, tyan, wai, wan, wang, wei, wen, wu, yan, yang, yau, yi, yin, ying, you, yu, yun, yung, ywan, ywe, zhi, zhin, zhing, zhya, zhyan, zhyang, zhye, zhyou, zhyu, zhyun Female Personal Names Choose two elements to form a name (1 in 20 use only one; in recent years, 1 in 6). Perhaps 1 in 20 of the two-element names are duplicates like Ching-ching or Pei-pei. These selections are typical, but elements can appear in any order. Common: Chin, Ching, Feng, Hung, Hwa, Hwan, Li, Ling, Lyan, Mei, Shu, Sya, Syau, Ting, Wan, Yan, Yin, Ying, Ywe, Zhywan First:A,Ai, An, Bai, Bau, Bei, Ben, Bi, Bin, Bing, Chen, Cheng, Chi, Chin, Ching, Chu, Chung, Chwei, Chwun, Chyang, Chyou, Chyun, Da, Dai, Dan, Dau, De, Ding, Dou, Dung, Dzai, Dzan, Dzau, Dzih, Er, Fang, Fei, Feng, Fu, Gwei, Hai, He, Hu, Hung, Hwa, Hwan, Hwang, Hwei, Jau, Jen, Jr, Jwo, Lai, Lan, Lang, Lau, Lei, Li, Lin, Ling, Lu, Lyan, Lyou, Mei, Min, Ming, Mu, Mwo, Myau, Nai, Nan, Nu, Nyou, Pau, Pei, Ping, Ran, Rou, Ru, Rung, Rwei, Rwun, Sang, Shan, Shau, Shou, Shr, Shu, Su, Sung, Sya, Syang, Syau, Sye, Syi, Syin, Sying, Syou, Syu, Syung, Sywan, Sywe, Tai, Tan, Te, Ting, Tsai, Tswei, Tsz, Tyan, Wan, Wei, Wen, Weng, Ya, Yan, Yi, Yin, Ying, You, Yu, Yun, Yung, Ywan, Ywe, Zhi, Zhin, Zhing, Zhung, Zhya, Zhyan, Zhyang, Zhye, Zhyu, Zhyun, Zhywan, Zhywe Second: bau, bei, bin, bing, bwo, chau, chen, cheng, chin, ching, chou, chu, chwan, chywe, dai, de, di, ding, dou, dzing, fang, fei, fen, feng, gai, gu, hai, he, hu, hung, hwa, hwan, hwei, jan, jen, jou, jr, ju, kai, ku, kwei, lai, lan, li, lin, ling, lu, lwun, lyan, man, mei, min, ming, myau, na, nan, ni, nyau, nyou, pau, pei, ping, ren, rung, rwan, rwei, rwun, shan, shr, shu, su, sya, syan, syang, syau, syi, syin, sying, syu, sywan, tai, ting, wa, wai, wan, wei, wen, ya, yan, yi, yin, ying, you, yu, yun, ywan, ywe, zhin, zhing, zhyan, zhyang, zhyau, zhye, zhyu, zhyun, zhywan Medieval Chinese The names are much the same for modern and medieval periods. the meanings became unsuitable. He might also have a fancy In medieval times, a Han of good lineage would have more than epithet, typically short, perhaps a title conferred by authority, his family and formal personal names, though. In addition, he but more often a nickname or descriptive phrase bestowed by would have an informal name, gained or given at adulthood, friends or colleagues. This might be used as a literary name if the possibly related to his formal name. This was used outside the bearer were so inclined. For instance the Han poet Li Bai had the home, as a sign of respect. Formal and informal names were family name Li and official personal name Bai; his informal name selected for meaning, and could be changed from time to time if was Tai-bai, and his epithet Ching-lyan (green lotus). Indian India has a large number of native languages and dialects. The major ones derive from Sanskrit, and include Hindi, Gujerati, Punjabi, Bengali, and Marathi. There are regional variations of common word forms and names, for instance, the ending ‘-ra’ becomes ‘-er’ in some places (so Chandra becomes Chander). In the north, a final ‘-a’ is often dropped, but in the south ‘-n’ or ‘.m’ is often added to it (so Raja could become Raj or Rajan, depending on where you were). The selection of names given here is from Hindu, Sikh, and other sources. There are thousands more. Modern Indian naming patterns are increasingly the same as those for English: one or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Leela Kumar. While most of the family names are subcaste names, some, such as Merchant and Engineer, come from recent trades, particularly the railways. Many Indians do not use family names, though. Often they use the father’s name or initial, then a personal name, for example, G. Sivam. The son and daughter of Sivam might be known as S. Arul and S. Leela, for instance. A wife takes her husband’s name on marriage, so when Miss D. Rohini married G. Sivam, she would have become Mrs Sivam Rohini. In South India, two initials are used; a women’s name consists of a personal name, then the initial and family name of her father. On marriage she ends her name instead with the initial and family name of her husband. Another pattern in south India is a name of three parts: the village name, the father’s name, then a personal name. So Vijay the son of Ranjan from Kurnool might be Kurnool Ranjan Vijay. Pronunciation The names here are the standard phonetic transcriptions, and can be pronounced as English, more or less. Theophoric Names Hindus use many names of deities and their titles, as well as by way of example; some (usually meaning ‘daughter of’ and the standard theophoric names: son of X, blessed by X, and so on. like) are used by only one sex. Such names may appear as a In these names, the name of the god comes first, followed by a compound name of two words (Ram Singh), or may be combined second word to complete the phrase. Brief lists are given below into one word (as listed hereafter). Gods:Agni, Ganesh, Gauri, Kali, Krishna, Ram, Sita, Vishnu, and so on (there are many Hindu gods, so there is plenty of scope) Male: Das, Kumar, Nandan, Raj, Sevak, Singh, Var Either: Baksh, Datta, Dev (god) or Devi (goddess), Din, Lal, Nath, Prasad Female: Kumari, Mala, Nandini, Pati, Vallabh, Vati Male Personal Names Common:Anand, Damodar, Ganesh, Krishna, Naresh, Niranjan, Rajesh, Ram, Satish, Vijay Standard:Abhijat, Abhinav,Abhishek, Achyuta, Aditya, Ajay,Akash, Akhilesh, Amal,Amar,Ambar,Ameya, Amit, Amitesh, Amogh, Amol, Amrit, Anand, Anant, Angada, Anil, Anirudhha, Anish, Ankit, Ankur, Anshul, Anurag, Arjun, Arul, Arun, Arvind, Ashok, Atmajyoti, Atul, Avanindra,Avanish, Badrinath, Badriprasad, Balaaditya, Balachandra, Balaji, Balakrishna, Balamani, Balamohan, Baldev, Balram, Bansi, Bhadraksh, Bhagirath, Bhanu, Bharat, Bhuvanesh, Bipin, Brijesh, Chaitanya, Chandra, Chandrak, Chandresh, Charudutta, Chetan, Chhotu, Chiranjeev, Chitraksh, Chittaranjan, Chudamani, Dakshesh, Damodar, Darpak, Daruka, Dattatreya, Deepak, Devanand, Devarsi, Devdas, Devendra, Devilal, Deviprasad, Devraj, Dhananjay, Dhanesh, Dharma, Dhiren, Dhirendra, Dilip, Dinesh, Divyesh, Durjaya, Gajanan, Gajendra, Ganaraj, Ganesh, Girilal, Giriraj, Gopal, Gopan, Gurcharan, Gurdayal, Gurnam, Gursharan, Gurudas, Haresh, Hari, Harshad, Harshul, Hemadri, Hemaraj, Hiranya, Hiresh, Hridayesh, Indeever, Indradutt, Inesh, Ishan, Jagajeet, Jagannath, Jaidev, Janak, Jasraj, Jasveer, Jaswant, Jawaharal, Jayant, Jaysukh, Jeevan, Jinendra, Jishnu, Jwala, Kalidas, Kamadev, Kamal, Kanan, Kaushal, Kavi, Krishna, Lakshman, Lalit, Lokesh, Loknath, Lokprakash, Madhu, Madhukar, Mahadev, Mahavir, Maheepati, Mahesh, Mandhatri, Manendra, Maniram, Manish, Manohar, Manoj, Matsendra, Meghdutt, Mihir, Mithil, Mithun, Mohan, Mukunda, Nalin, Namdev, Nanda, Nandi, Narayana, Naresh, Natraj, Navnit, Neel, Neelam, Nehru, Nidhish, Nihar, Nikhil, Nilesh, Niranjan, Nityasundar, Ojas, Omprakash, Oorjit, Pankaj, Paramjeet, Paresh, Partha, Pavan, Phanindra, Phoolendu, Pradeep, Pradnesh, Prakash, Pranav, Prasad, Pravar, Praveen, Pritam, Prithvijaj, Purumitra, Puskara, Raj, Rajan, Rajani, Rajeev, Rajesh, Rakesh, Ram, Raman, Ranjan, Ranjeet, Ravi, Ravikiran, Ravindra, Rishi, Rupak, Sagar, Samir, Samrat, Samudra, Sandeep, Satish, Satyendra, Saurav, Senajit, Shankar, Shatrunjay, Siddharth, Sivam, Sriram, Subodh, Sudhir, Sujit, Sundar, Sunil, Swaraj, Tapan, Tarak, Taran, Tej, Tungesh, Tushar, Udit, Ulhas, Upendra, Uttam, Vachaspati, Vajramani, Vandan, Vaninath, Varun, Vasudev,Vasuman, Vidur,Vijay,Vikas, Vikram, Vimal, Vinay, Viraj, Virochan, Vishal, Vishnu, Vishvatma, Viswanath, Yashodhan, Yashodhara, Yashpal, Yuvaraj Female Personal Names Common:Aruna, Gayatri, Indira, Indu, Leela, Mohani, Rohini, Satya, Sumitra, Usha Standard:Ajala, Ambuja, Amita,Ammu, Amodini,Amrita,Amulya, Anandita,Ananya,Anisha, Anita,Anjali, Ankita, Anuradha, Anurati, Aradhana, Arati, Aruna, Arundhati, Asha,Ashakiran, Ashavari, Avani, Bakula, Bala, Bandhura, Bharati, Bhavani, Bina, Bindiya, Brinda, Chakrika, Chambeli, Chandraki, Charu, Chhaya, Chitra, Chitrani, Damini, Darika, Dashika, Daya, Dayita, Deepa, Deepali, Devaki, Dhanyata, Dhara, Dharini, Dhatri, Dristi, Durga, Gayatri, Hamsa, Harinakshi, Harsha, Harshini, Hema, Hemangi, Hemlata, Himani, Hita, Ila, Indira, Indrakshi, Indu, Induma, Jagadamba, Jagrati, Jahnavi, Janaki, Jaya, Jayashri, Jeevika, Juhi, Jyoti, Kajal, Kala, Kalavati, Kalindi, Kalyani, Kamala, Kamalika, Kanaka, Kanchana, Karuka, Kasturi, Kaumudi, Kavita, Keshini, Kiran, Komal, Krupa, Kunda, Kunjal, Kushala, Kusuma, Lakshmi, Lalana, Lali, Lalima, Lalita, Latangi, Lavali, Leela, Lipika, Lochana, Lona, Madhavi, Madhura, Madhuri, Mala, Malati, Malini, Mallika, Manasi, Manjula, Manushri, Marala, Marisa, Maya, Mayuri, Meena, Meenakshi, Meera, Mohani, Mridula, Nalini, Namrata, Nanda, Nandita, Neela, Netra, Nidhi, Nidra, Nikhita, Nilima, Niral, Nirmala, Nirupa, Nisha, Nita, Niti, Nitya, Nivedita, Padma, Pari, Parinita, Parnika, Pavana, Pooja, Poorvi, Prerana, Pritha, Priya, Puja, Punita, Rachna, Radha, Radhika, Rajani, Rajata, Rakhi, Rama, Ramita, Ranjana, Rashmi, Rati, Ratnavali, Rekha, Revati, Rohini, Roshan, Ruchi, Ruchira, Rudrani, Rujula, Rujuta, Rupa, Rupali, Sachi, Sachita, Sadhana, Salila, Samiksha, Sandhya, Sanjukta, Saphala, Sarala, Sarasa, Saravati, Sarika, Sarita, Saroja, Saryu, Sashi, Satya, Savarna, Savita, Savitri, Shalini, Shanti, Sharada, Sharmila, Sharmistha, Shikha, Shradhdha, Shreya, Shruti, Siddhi, Smriti, Sona, Sonia, Suchitra, Sumana, Sumitra, Sunita, Supriya, Suravinda, Suruchi, Surupa, Sushila, Sushma, Tanushri, Tanvi, Tapti, Tara, Trishna, Trupti, Trusha, Tulasi, Tusti, Udaya, Ulka, Uma, Upama, Urja, Urmi, Urvasi, Urvi, Usha, Uttara, Vaishali, Vajra, Vallika, Vandana, Vani, Vanita, Varija, Varsha, Varuni, Vasumati, Vatsala, Veena, Vidula, Vimala, Vinaya, Vinita, Vinodini, Visala, Yamuna, Yashila, Yashoda Family Names Common:Aggarwal, Chande, Chander, Jai, Kumar, Lal, Pal, Raje, Shan, Sharma Standard:Aggarwal, Anand,Apte, Arun, Bannerjee, Barendran, Bhat, Bhatt, Buhpathi, Chande, Chander, Chandna, Chandra, Chandrasekar, Chandrashaker, Charan, Chatterjee, Chaudhry, Chauhan, Chennapragada, Chhavvi, Chirag, Choudhari, Darisipudi, Darsha, Dawar, Dhawan, Dhiri, Divecha, Durmada, Dutta, Engineer, Gajraj, Gandhi, Ganesh, Gargeya, Ghorpade, Giridharan, Goel, Gopinath, Gowravaram, Guntupalli, Gupta, Gutta, Hemalatha, Huggahilli, Jafferbhoy, Jai, Jana, Janjua, Jayasurya, Jindal, Jitesh, Joshi, Kabir, Kalanadhabhatla, Kambhatla, Kanmani, Kapoor, Kasavaraju, Kaushik, Keshab, Khanderia, Kishore, Kittur, Kola, Koneru, Kosuri, Krishnamurthy, Kriti, Kumar, Kunderan, Kusagra, Lal, Lalit, Lata, Latha, Loy, Madan, Madhana, Mahajan, Mahalingam, Maitryi, Malhotra, Mamgain, Mandar, Mangalwadi, Manjrekar, Manju, Manohar, Mantri, Maruthi, Mati, Mavalvala, Meenakshi, Mehra, Mehta, Mehul, Merchant, Milan, Mittal, Mittur, Mongia, Mrudaya, Mukund, Muqtedar, Muthanna, Muthu, Naagesh, Nagappa, Nageswar, Nagpal, Naini, Nandin, Nara, Naran, Narang, Narasimban, Narayan, Naseer, Nath, Nayak, Neel, Neela, Neelam, Neelesh, Nehru, Nergis, Nigam, Niki, Nimbalkar, Nirmal, Nirmala, Nita, Niten, Nizami, Padmanabh, Pal, Palanisamy, Pancholi, Pandit, Panth, Parmar, Parvin, Patel, Patterjee, Pawan, Pedapudi, Persaud, Phalgun, Polamreddy, Potluri, Prajna, Prasad, Prasanth, Pratyush, Primal, Priyadarshi, Puja, Pundarik, Punj, Puri, Purva, Rabindra, Raghavendra, Rai, Rajabhushan, Rajagopal, Rajan, Rajaraman, Raje, Raji, Ramadhin, Raman, Ramasubramanian, Ramji, Rana, Ranadhir, Ranga, Rangwala, Rastogi, Rathin, Raviram, Rengarajan, Riju, Roy, Rupali, Sadashiv, Sahar, Sahni, Sai, Sailesh, Saini, Salagame, Sameer, Samuel, Sanat, Sandeep, Sangawar, Sandhu, Sankait, Sanu, Sara, Sarangapani, Sarin, Sashi, Sathyanna, Satyavrat, Saxena, Sehgal, Semerkant, Sen, Seshadrinathan, Sethi, Shadilya, Shaina, Shan, Shanbhag, Sharma, Shastri, Shingane, Shivaprakash, Shreeyash, Shroff, Shvetank, Singh, Sita, Smirti, Solanki, Somu, Soni, Soumodip, Sree, Sreeram, Srikumar, Srini, Srivas, Srivastav, Srivastava, Subbarao, Subrahmanyam, Subram, Subramani, Subramanian, Subudhi, Sudesha, Sudha, Sughavanam, Sukhjinder, Sumon, Sunther, Surekha, Suri, Surti, Susan, Swami, Swamy, Taksa, Tanuj, Tarpana, Thamma, Thirunavu, Thuvaradran, Tirumalai, Tuhin, Tyagi, Ubriani, Uddin, Ujjwala, Upanishad, Uttara, Vaisakhi, Vallurupa, Vaninadha, Varsha, Vasuki, Vedula, Veena, Veer,Vellore, Venkateshwara, Verma, Vibhuti, Vijaya, Vijaysaradhi, Vinutha, Virendra, Vish, Vishnavi, Viswesh, Vyapari, Yamini,Yavar,Yogesh Sanskrit Many Sanskrit names are still in use in India today. In ancient priests) used sarman; Kshatriya (officials, warriors), varman; times the Sanskrit-speaking Aryans used only personal names, Vaisya (merchants, craftsmen), gupta; Shudra (peasantry), dasa. with bynames as needed, usually patronymics and metronymics. For instance, if their castes were to be emphasised, a potter To indicate caste in their four-caste system, they might might be called Candra Gupta, a soldier Bahu Varman. sometimes add a second name or suffix: Brahmin (scholars, Male Personal Names Common:Ashoka, Bahu, Candra, Caru, Kalidasa, Narasimha, Puru, Samudra Standard:Abhicandra, Abhijit, Abhiratra, Abhiru, Acalapati, Acanda, Acyutayu, Adhisvara, Agnidatta, Agnimitra, Agnitejas, Ahima, Ajakasva, Ajata, Ajitabha, Akila, Akopa, Aksata, Alikayu, Amarisa, Anadrishti, Anaghadru, Anangam, Angarasetu, Angaristha, Anirudh, Anuha, Anurag, Apratipa, Apratiratha, Apratirupa, Aradhaka, Aranyakumara, Arghya, Arijit, Arvind, Aryabhata, Asadha, Ashmaratha, Ashok, Ashoka, Aticanda, Atidatta, Atideva, Atisa, Avik, Aviksit, Ayuta, Ayutajit, Bahadur, Bahu, Bahuvasin, Balakrit, Balin, Balistha, Bhabesa, Bhadrabahu, Bhadracaru, Bhagana, Bhajya, Bhavya, Bhoganatha, Bhrigubhumi, Bhuritejas, Bindusara, Birju, Brajamani, Brihaspati, Canakya, Candasa, Candra, Candrabhasu, Caru, Carudatta, Cirakari, Cirayu, Dabhiti, Damati, Damya, Dandavirya, Devaki, Devapi, Devarha, Dharman, Dharmeyu, Dhimant, Dhrisni, Dhriti, Dhritiman, Dhritimant, Dhritimitra, Dhruvas, Dhundhi, Dhvasanti, Dimbha, Dirghadanstra, Dridhacyut, Duli, Durba, Durgama, Durvartu, Dustara, Dutta, Ekada, Ekayavan, Ekdak, Garavant, Gaur, Gauradas, Gauramukha, Gavamrita, Ghujyu, Gopali, Govind, Haran, Hari, Harishkumar, Harsha, Hemanth, Hiranyina, Hiryur, Hridaya, Hridayaja, Itar, Jagnu, Jai, Jaimini, Janghabandhu, Janistha, Janu, Jatya, Jayadev, Jayakar, Jenya, Kajjala, Kalidasa, Kalmali, Kamboja, Kamuka, Kapil, Kapilan, Karmendra, Karnamukha, Kautilya, Ketu, Khanaka, Khayali, Kohada, Kratumaya, Kratuvid, Ksanti, Ksantu, Ksema, Ksemamaya, Ksemari, Kulin, Kumara, Kurcika, Kuruk, Lohitaxa, Mahakarni, Mahavir, Mahendra, Mahinda, Malkiat, Mandhatri, Mani, Mitreyu, Mrinal, Nabil, Naikadrish, Naimishri, Nalin, Nami, Nandin, Naradin, Narasimha, Natha, Nayan, Nikhil, Nirviti, Palin, Pallab, Parahan, Paramjit, Paresh, Prabhu, Pradyumna, Prakaramardin, Pratibahu, Pravasu, Pura, Puru, Purujanu, Pusyamitra, Rajastambhla, Ranavanya, Ranjit, Riju, Ripu, Sabhapati, Sadhasuvak, Sahisnu, Samnateyu, Samraj, Samudra, Saptapala, Sarpamalin, Satyadharman, Satyajit, Shamtanu, Shanti, Shiras, Shirsin, Shrusti, Shrutavid, Skanda, Somakirti, Sudaman, Sudhaman, Sumanjit, Sumnayu, Sundar, Surari, Sushanti, Sushruta, Svati, Tanu, Tarasvin, Tarun, Uccairmanyu, Udhajit, Upaveshi, Upavi, Uttam, Vadanya, Vajabandhu, Varayu, Vasan, Vasu, Vataki, Vidya, Virabahu, Virajas, Virupa, Visri, Vitarka, Vrateyu, Vrijinavant, Yashodharman Female Personal Names Common:Amalaa, Datti, Hamsi, Kumaradevi, Prabhavati, Talaa, Vadavaa, Yashodevi Standard:Abandhakaa, Abhiraksaa, Abjaa, Ahalyaa, Ahilyaa, Ajathyaa, Akasamalaa, Alakaravati, Alambusaa, Amalaa, Amarajaa, Ambaa, Ambalikaa, Ambikaa, Amritaa, Amritamaa, Anandaa, Ananyaa, Angadaa, Anhati, Anindyaa, Anjasi, Anritam, Anubhaa, Apagaa, Apalaa, Arcismati, Arhanaa, Arjaa, Arpanaa, Arundhati, Asadhikaa, Asmaki, Asokari, Asthulaa, Asti, Astriti, Asuraa, Atharvan, Avanthikaa, Badari, Badhirakaa, Balaa, Baladaa, Balajaa, Balaji, Balandharaa, Bandhumati, Bhadraa, Bhagraa, Bhanujaa, Bhanumati, Bhargavi, Bindumati, Bridgnandan, Brihanmati, Cahanaa, Caruhasini, Carumati, Citrai, Citrajyoti, Citramayaa, Citrarati, Cudalaa, Dalajaa, Damayanti, Dasi, Dattaa, Dattadevi, Datti, Devaki, Devamani, Devamati, Devayani, Devi, Devikaa, Dhamani, Dharmini, Dhitaa, Dhiti, Dhulipallaa, Dhumini, Drudhamati, Druti, Dulari, Durgilaa, Gandaa, Gandhajaa, Gargi, Gaurang, Gayathri, Ghosaa, Girismaa, Girni, Gitikaa, Gopaa, Gopacalaa, Gopajaa, Haimini, Hamsi, Harsi, Harsitaa, Harsumati, Hasumati, Ilaksi, Indrahuti, Jagruti, Janaki, Janhitaa, Jatilaa, Jayaa, Jayalaksmi, Jityaa, Kakudmati, Kalamali, Kalandikaa, Kalpavati, Kalyani, Kamaa, Kamadyu, Kamyaa, Kanisthaa, Kanitaa, Karunyaa, Kasturikaa, Khadonmattaa, Khalaa, Khalyakaa, Kiranamayi, Kishori, Kranti, Kuladevi, Kulanari, Kumaradevi, Kumari, Kumariaa, Kumudikaa, Kundalaa, Kundini, Kusumayaa, Kusumitaa, Kuthodari, Kuvarini, Laboni, Lakshmi, Lakshmivati, Madalasaa, Madhiraa, Madhu, Madhumati, Madhur, Malar, Malathi, Malini, Mandaraa, Manikaa, Mantharaa, Maryadaa, Meenaa, Menakaa, Mitravindaa, Mudavati, Musikaa, Nalini, Nandaa, Nimi, Nishchint, Oghavati, Padmaa, Padmavati, Padmini, Pari, Pingalaa, Prabhavati, Pramadvaraa, Pratibhaa, Priyaa, Puramdhi, Radhe, Radhikaa, Rajahidevi, Rajni, Rakesh, Ramadevi, Rani, Rathamtari, Revati, Rochanaa, Rohenaa, Rudraa, Rudramati, Rukmini, Sahadevaa, Sahanaa, Sampriyaa, Saralaa, Sathyaa, Satyaa, Satyabhamaa, Sauraa, Savithaa, Savitri, Sepathaa, Shabanaa, Shalakaa, Shalavati, Shantaa, Shantanu, Sharath, Sharmisthaa, Shyamaa, Shyamalaa, Shyamani, Sudevalaa, Sudharmaa, Sujataa, Sujathaa, Sukanyaa, Sumanth, Sumathi, Sumitraa, Sunandaa, Sunithaa, Suniti, Surjit, Sushilaa, Sushmaa, Suyashas, Swaran, Talaa, Tamrapaksaa, Taraa, Umaa, Umi, Urmilaa, Urvashi, Urvasi, Ushaa, Uttaraa, Vadavaa, Vahyakaa, Varaa, Varangi, Vasundaraa, Vijayaa, Vimalaa, Vimi, Vimlaa, Vishalaa,Yashodevi Japanese In the past only the high-ranking families of Japan had family names and only the males could pass them on. Instead, one or more bynames describing occupation, characteristics, and so on were commonly used. In 1853 the use of inheritable family names was made universal. Japanese is natively written in the Kanji script, adapted from Chinese characters 2000 years ago. Most family names consist of two Kanji characters. A limited set is used for names, leading to many repeated elements. Some elements were restricted, such as -hito, used only by the imperial family. (You might also want to keep this for the personal names of scions of that house.) BOOK OF NAMES 74 The pattern is the family name followed by a personal name, for example, Sato Ryou, where Sato is Ryou’s family name. Middle names are not used. The son and daughter of Ryou might be known as Sato Yuuta and Sato Ayaka, for instance. Japanese may occasionally switch the order when they deal with Westeners. A married woman adopts her husband’s family name. The Japanese are sensitive to social status, and honorific suffixes are always used unless addressing friends or social inferiors (which includes anyone younger). The usual one is .san, which equates to Mr, Mrs, Miss, or Ms. You would normally address FujimotoAkira (family names first, remember) as Fujimoto-san. Before family names were used, Akira-san would rhymes with that in ‘men’. The /i/ is a long /ee/ sound, and /o/ is have been proper. The next grade up is -sama, which equates to also long, as in ‘rope’; the /ou/ is slightly longer, but can be Sir or Madam, and would be used for the much respected, high written as a single ‘o’ (as in Sato). The /u/ rhymes with that in officials, and in the past, samurai and lesser nobility. The highest ‘gun’; the /uu/ sounds like /oo/ but is often written as a single honorific is -dono, which equates to Honoured Sir or the like, ‘u’ (as in Suzuki). The /ai/ sounds like ‘eye’, and the /ei/ rhymes and would be used for the highly respected and greater nobility. with ‘hey’. The /g/ is hard, and the /z/ sounds like /dz/. The /f/ is Other suffixes include -sensei, an honorific used for one’s softer than in English. There is no real ‘r’ or ‘l’ sound as such: mentors or for masters of their professions, -kun, for friends or either letter means a sound between the two, but slightly closer juniors, and -chan, a diminutive for close friends and children to /r/. Most Japanese syllables end in a vowel. To pronounce (especially girls). Japanese names, just break them into syllables: ‘Kazuki’ is kah.Zoo-kee, ‘Moe’ is Moh-eh, and so on. The pitch falls after a stressed syllable.Pronunciation In the transliteration of Japanese used here, you say all the vowels, even the final e’s. The /a/ is long, as in ‘father’. The /e/ Family Names Common: Hayashi, Inouoe, Itou, Katou, Kimura, Kobayashi, Matsumoto, Nakamura, Saitou, Sasaki, Sato, Simizu, Suzuki, Takahashi, Tanaka, Watanabe, Yamada, Yamaguchi, Yamamoto, Yosida Standard:Abe, Abukara, Ajibana, Akechi,Amagawa, Andou,Anzai, Aoki,Arai,Araki, Asai, Ashida, Chiba, Chishu, Dan, Doi, Egami, Eguchi, Ekiguchi, Endo, Endou, Enoki, Fugunaga, Fujimoto, Fujita, Fujiwara, Fukao, Fukumitsu, Fukuoka, Furusawa, Fuse, Gensai, Goto, Gotou, Hagino, Hamada, Hanari, Hara, Harada, Haruguchi, Hasegawa, Hashimoto, Hatoyama, Hayakawa, Hayashi, Hida, Hideki, Hideyoshi, Higo, Hike, Hirano, Hiratasuka, Hiro, Hisamatsu, Honda, Horiuchi, Hosokaya, Hujii, Hujimoto, Hujita, Hukuta, Ichimonji, Idane, Iijima, Ijiri, Ikeda, Ikina, Imada, Imai, Inaba, Inoue, Inouoe, Irie, Isayama, Ishibashi, Ishida, Ishiguro, Ishihara, Ishii, Ishikawa, Ishinomori, Isikawa, Isobe, Ito, Itou, Iwahara, Iwasaki, Iwazaki, Kagawa, Kaima, Kajitani, Kamachi, Kaminaga, Kanegawa, Kaneko, Karamorita, Karubo, Kasai, Kasuse, Kato, Katou, Katsu, Kawabata, Kawagichi, Kawaii, Kawano, Kawasaki, Kawasie, Kentaro, Kijmuta, Kikuchi, Kikui, Kimiyama, Kimura, Kinoshita, Kobayashi, Koga, Koguchi, Koizumi, Kojima, Kokan, Komiya, Konda, Kondo, Kondou, Konishi, Koruba, Kotara, Koyama, Kubo, Kudou, Kunda, Kuramochi, Kurmochi, Kurogane, Kyubei, Maeda, Marubeni, Marusa, Maruyama, Mashita, Masuda, Masuko, Masuzoe, Matsuda, Matsui, Matsumara, Matsumoto, Matsuo, Matsuoka, Matsushita, Matsuzawa, Mifune, Mitsubishi, Mitsukuri, Mitsuya, Miura, Miyagi, Miyajima, Miyamoto, Miyazaki, Miyazawa, Mizuno, Momotani, Mori, Morimoto, Morita, Moto, Murakami, Muraoka, Murasaki, Murase, Murata, Nagai, Nagano, Nagasawa, Nagatsuka, Nakada, Nakadan, Nakagawa, Nakajima, Nakamoto, Nakamura, Nakano, Nakao, Nakata, Nakayama, Nakazawa, Narita, Nishi, Nishikawa, Nishimura, Nishio, Nobunaga, Noguchi, Nomura, Numajiri, Ochiai, Ochida, Ogata, Ogawa, Ogura, Ohmae, Oinuma, Okada, Okamoto, Okamura, Okano, Okuda, Ono, Oshin, Ota, Otake, Otsu, Otsuka, Raikatuji, Ryusaki, Sada, Saito, Saitou, Saji, Sakai, Sakamoto, Sakiyurai, Sakubara, Sanda, Sano, Santo, Sasaki, Sato, Sawamatsu, Sekine, Seo, Shibanuma, Shibasawa, Shibata, Shiga, Shigeki, Shimada, Shimanouchi, Shimizu, Shimohira, Shintaro, Shiomi, Shirane, Shirokawa, Simizu, Sohda, Soseki, Suenami, Sugase, Sugawara, Sugimura, Sugiyama, Suzuki, Taguchi, Takada, Takagaki, Takagawa, Takagi, Takahashi, Takano, Takeda, Takei, Takemura, Taketomo, Takeuchi, Tamura, Tanaka, Tani, Taniguchi, Tatsuya, Terada, Terauchi, Togo, Tokuda, Tomonaga, Toru, Toyoshima, Toyota, Tsujimoto, Tsukahara, Tsukatani, Tsukehara, Tsurimi, Uboshita, Uchida, Ueda, Ueno, Uetake, Umehara, Usami, Wada, Watabe, Watanabe, Yamada, Yamaguchi, Yamaha, Yamakazi, Yamamoto, Yamamura, Yamashita, Yamato, Yamawaki, Yamazaki, Yano, Yasuhiro, Yasutake, Yokoyama, Yoshida, Yoshihara, Yoshinobu, Yoshizaki, Yosida, Yunokawa Male Personal Names Common:Akira, Daichi, Daiki, Daisuke, Kazuki, Kenta, Kou, Kouhei, Naoki, Ren, Ryota, Ryou, Shou, Shouta, Takumi, Takuya, Tatsuya, Tsubasa, Yuuki, Yuuta Standard:Akihisa,Akihito, Akira,Atasuke, Chihiro, Chojiro, Daichi, Daigoro, Daiharu, Daiki, Daisuke, Dokuohtei, Eiji, Eisaku, Ekiken, Fujio, Fukusaburu, Fumihiro, Genpaku, Goichi, Goro, Hachemon, Hajime, Haru, Haruhiko, Haruki, Hatsue, Hayato, Heishiro, Hideki, Hidemichi, Hidetora, Hideyoshi, Hikaru, Hiro, Hirokichi, Hiroshi, Hirotaka, Hiroyasu, Hiroyuki, Hisashi, Hisayuki, Hitoshi, Ichiro, Iemitsu, Ieyasu, Ikemoto, Isamu, Isei, Ishio, Isoruko, Jiro, Junzo, Kakuei, Kanzaburo, Katsumi, Katsuyoshi, Katsuyuki, Kazuhiko, Kazuki, Kazuma, Kazuo, Kazuyoshi, Keiji, Keiso, Kenichi, Kenji, Kenjiro, Kenta, Kiichi, Kimitada, Kitaru, Kiyohisa, Kiyoshi, Koichi, Koki, Kosho, Kou, Kouhei, Kumanosuke, Kunimichi, Kunio, Kyoji, Kyozo, Manabu, Manobu, Marihito, Masaaki, Masahide, Masami, Masanori, Masao, Masashi, Masatake, Masazumi, Masu, Masuhiro, Masutaro, Matashichi, Matsuo, Meiji, Michio, Minoru, Mito, Mitsuhide, Mobumasu, Morimasa, Motoki, Motoyuki, Munoto, Mushanokoji, Naofumi, Naohiro, Naoki, Natsume, Natsuo, Nobuharu, Nobuo, Noburo, Nobuyoki, Noritada, Noritoshi, Ogai, Okakura, Osamu, Ren, Ryota, Ryou, Ryu, Ryunosuke, Saburo, Sadaharu, Sadao, Sadayoshi, Sanjuro, Satoru, Satoshi, Sawao, Seiji, Seinosuke, Seishisai, Seisi, Sessue, Shiba, Shigeo, Shigeru, Shigochiyo, Shin, Shinichi, Shinji, Shinobu, Shinsaku, Shiro, Shirosama, Shoji, Shoko, Shotaro, Shou, Shouta, Shozo, Shukishi, Shun, Shunichi, Shunsuke, Shuzo, Soseki, Subaru, Suezo, Sugita, Sumiteru, Susumu, Tagashashi, Taisho, Taizo, Takahiro, Takamasa, Takanori, Takao, Takashi, Takayuki, Takehide, Takeichi, Takeo, Takeshi, Takuji, Takumi, Takuya, Tamotsu, Tanzan, Taro, Tashiro, Tatsuya, Teriuihi, Tetsu, Toichi, Toin, Tokugawa, Tokutomi, Tomiichi, Torazo, Toshiaki, Toshiki, Toshio, Toshiro, Toyoaki, Toyokazu, Tsubasa, Tsuginori, Tsutomu, Ukyo, Washichi, Yakumo, Yasotaro, Yasuhiro, Yasuo, Yasushi, Yato, Yeijiro, Yoshida, Yoshihide, Yoshihisa, Yoshiji, Yoshiki, Yoshinobu, Yoshio, Yoshiyuki, Yuichi, Yuji, Yukichi, Yukio, Yutaka, Yuu, Yuuki, Yuuta, Zenko Female Personal Names Common:Asuka, Aya, Ayaka, Ayano, Haruka, Haruna, Kana, Mai, Miho, Miki, Misaki, Moe, Nanami, Natsuki, Natsumi, Rina, Saki, Yui, Yuka, Yukio Standard:Ai,Aiko, Akane, Akemi, Akiko, Asuka,Asuza, Atsuko, Aya, Ayaka, Ayako, Ayano, Chie, Chieko, Chika, Chikuma, Chinatsu, Chitose, Chiyeko, Chiyo, Echiko, Eiko, Emi, Emiko, Eri, Eriko, Etsuko, Fujiko, Fumi, Fumiko, Fusae, Fuyuko, Gemmei, Ginko, Hama, Hana, Hanae, Hanako, Haniko, Haru, Haruka, Harukichi, Haruko, Haruna, Hideko, Hikaru, Hiroe, Hiroko, Hiromi, Hisa, Hisae, Hisako, Hitomo, Hitoshi, Iku, Inoue, Ise, Ishi, Itsuko, Junko, Juri, Kaede, Kahori, Kana, Kaori, Kaoru, Katsuko, Katsumi, Kayoko, Kazuko, Kazumi, Keiko, Kenshi, Kimie, Kin, Kinuko, Kinuye, Kinuyo, Kita, Kiyo, Kiyoko, Kiyomi, Kochiyo, Koiso, Koken, Kuki, Kukiko, Kumi, Kumiko, Kunie, Kuniko, Kyoko, Mai, Maki, Makiko, Mako, Mami, Mana, Mari, Mariko, Masae, Masako, Masami, Masayuki, Matsu, Mayu, Mayumi, Megu, Megumi, Michi, Michiko, Midori, Mieko, Miho, Miiko, Miki, Miliko, Mina, Minako, Mineko, Misaki, Misako, Mitsiko, Mitsu, Mitsuko, Mitsuyo, Miwako, Miyako, Miyo, Miyoko, Miyoshi, Moe, Momoko, Nana, Nanami, Naoko, Naora, Natsu, Natsuki, Natsuko, Natsumi, Norie, Noriko, Ochiyo, Oharu, Okichi, Okiku, Omitsu, Otsu, Otsune, Raicho, Rei, Reiko, Reina, Rika, Rina, Sachiko, Sadako, Saeko, Saito, Sakamae, Saki, Sakue, Sama, Saori, Sata, Satoko, Sei, Seiko, Seki, Setsuko, Shige, Shigeko, Shioko, Shiori, Shizu, Shoken, Shoko, Shoshi, Sué, Sui, Suko, Sumi, Sumie, Sumiko, Suzue, Suzuko, Tai, Takako, Tamafune, Tamaki, Tamami, Tamiko, Taniko, Tansho, Teishi, Teruyo, Tokiwa, Toku, Tomi, Tomiko, Tomoko, Tomomi, Toshie, Toshiko, Toyohiko, Toyoko, Tsuki, Tsuya, Umeka, Umeko, Urako, Utako, Yae, Yaeko, Yasu, Yasuko, Yoka, Yoko, Yoshike, Yoshiko, Yui, Yuka, Yuki, Yukiko, Yukio, Yukiyo, Yuko, Yumi,Yumiko,Yuri, Yuriko, Yusuke Medieval Japanese Modern Japanese personal names can be used, although the warrior caste that held power from the 12th to 19th centuries. distribution was different. Some personal and family names used Bushi or samurai families often used particular names for their in medieval times are discussed below. sons. From first to fifth born, these names were Ichiro, Jiro or Chojiro, Saburo or Kanzaburo, Shiro or Heishiro, and Goro or Most personal names consisted of two elements (two Kanji Daigoro. A bushi’s wife could add ‘-gozen’ to her name. Nobles characters), usually of two syllables. Some names used extra in medieval Japan often used a name of three parts: a family syllables (Moriakira, Nishikintoki, Susumu), or only one element name then two personal names, the first for informal use by (Yoshi was used by itself as a personal name). Common syllables family and friends, the second for formal use. For example, include the suffix ‘-ko’ meaning ‘child’ in female personal names. Nanba Hikaru Yoshimasa: Hikaru to his friends and the Nanba family,Yoshimasa in public. The term samurai was originally used to denote the aristocratic warriors (bushi), but it came to apply to all the members of the Family Names Some names of noble and warrior (bushi or samurai) families follow. Lower-ranking families would not have had inheritable family names. The top five noble families were Konoe, Takashi, Kujo, Ichijo, and Gojo. Noble:Aburakoji,Anenokoji, Asukai, Daigo, Gojo, Hirohata, Ichijo, Imaidegawa, Inokuma, Jimyoin, Kajuji, Kaoin, Karasuma, Kawashi, Konjo, Konoe, Kuga, Kujo, Masachika, Matsuki, Minase, Nakayama, Nanba, Nomiya, Oimikado, Rakujochigusa, Reizei, Saioji, Sanjo, Shigenoi, Shijo, Shimizudani, Takashi, Tokudaiji, Washio, Yamashina Warrior:Asai, Askikaga, Chosokabe, Date, Fukushima, Genji, Hachisuka, Hattori, Heike, Hojo, Honda, Hosokawa, Ishida, Kaga, Kato, Kuki, Kuroda, Kusunoki, Maeda, Matsudaira, Miyamoto, Mori, Murakami, Oda, Okamoto, Okubo, Ooka, Saito, Shibata, Shimazu, Suwa, Takeda, Takezaki, Takigawa, Tanuma, Tokugawa, Ukita, Watanabe Personal Names Most of these name elements are taken from male names of the Middle Ages. Choose two different elements to form a name (1 in 100 use a one-syllable first element, 1 in 100 use an extra syllable). If you end up randomly selecting the same element (such as Yoshi) twice, use it alone. For females, use the lists as is (Murasaki, for instance, was a recorded female name), a female first element (1 in 10 by itself), or a modern personal name. The suffix ‘-ko’ is far and away the most popular female ending: add it to a name formed from these lists (1 in 6 using only a first element) to make the name obviously female. First Common: Masa, Michi, Mitsu, Moto, Nobu, Nori, Sada, Suke, Taka, Yoshi Female Common:Ai, Cho, Hana, Jun, Kei, Kuki, Mai, Nami, Natsu, Sumi,Yuki,Yuri First:Ada, Aka, Aki, Ari,Atsu, Chi, Chika, Fuji, Fumi, Fusa, Fuyu, Hama, Haru, Hide, Hiko, Hiro, Hisa, Hori, Ie, Kage, Kama, Kane, Kata, Katsu, Kawa, Kazu, Kimi, Kin, Kiyo, Kore, Kuni, Kyu, Masa, Masu, Matsu, Michi, Mitsu, Mochi, Momo, Mori, Moro, Moto, Motsu, Mune, Mura, Naga, Nage, Nagi, Naho, Naka, Nao, Nari, Nishi, Nobu, Nori, Oki, Oto, Sada, Saki, Sane, Shige, Sue, Suke, Sumi, Tada, Taka, Take, Tame, Tane, Tatsu, Tera, Teru, Toki, Tomo, Tora, Toshi, Toyo, Tsugu, Tsuna, Tsune, Tsura, Tsure, Uchi, Uji, Uma, Yasu, Yori, Yoshi, Yuki (Hi, Ma, Su, Te, To) Second Common: hira, masa, moto, naga, nori, shige, toki, tsune, yasu, yoshi Second: ai, aki, ari, atsu, bumi, chi, chika, e, fuji, fumi, fusa, fuyu, gane, haru, hide, hiko, hira, hiro, hisa, ie, ishi, jiro, ka, kado, kage, kai, kane, kata, katsu, kawa, kaze, kazu, ki, kimi, kiyo, koto, kuni, maro, masa, masu, mi, michi, mitsu, mochi, mori, moto, mu, mune, mura, muro, na, naga, naka, nao, nari, natsu, nobu, nori, o, oki, omi, ra, ru, sada, saka, saki, sato, shige, su, sue, suke, ta, tada, taka, take, tame, tane, tari, tatsu, teru, to, toki, tomi, tomo, tora, toshi, tou, toyo, tsugi, tsugu, tsuke, tsuna, tsune, tsura, tzugu, uji, uzo, yasu, yo, yori, yoshi, yuki, zane, zo, zumi Korean The old nobility of Korea consisted of only six clans, with family names An, Bak, Choi, Gim, Jang, Yee. They were later joined by Jo and Min. Until the 10th century, only the nobility had family names. Loyal followers could be rewarded with the privilege then; later others bought or adopted such names. Most had them by the 19th century. When the use of inheritable family names was mandated in 1909, existing names were taken for reasons of tradition and status. The result is that there are less than 300 family names in all Korea, with very few derived from places or professions. The five most popular family names - Bak, Choi, Gim, Jang, Yee - account for half the population. Branches of a family (there can be hundreds) are usually told apart by a place name indicating ancestry, although this is not part of the name proper. The modern pattern (for the last century) is usually three names of one syllable: the family name (important) followed by a two-part personal name (less so). The compound personal name traditionally contains a generational name shared by brothers, sisters, and cousins of one generation, and another unique to each person. (The generational name may alternate position between generations. Both elements are used in the name, as in ‘Ellie Mae’, but the order doesn’t matter so much.) For example, Yee Kun Hee has a family name of Yee and a personal name of Kun Hee. His son and daughter might be known as Yee Soon Yong and Yee Soon Hyun, for instance (where Soon is the generational part of their personal names). Some Koreans have only one element to their names, some three, and generational elements are not always used, or may differ between brothers and sisters. Married women retain their maiden names. When dealing with Westeners, Koreans often run their personal names together (Juchul rather than Ju Chul), and may use their family names last. Close school friends and younger family members might be addressed by their personal names, and names can be used to refer to someone not present, but otherwise, Koreans avoid using their names as much as possible. Outside the family, people usually address each other by title, position, or honorific. There is an elaborate system of honorifics to refer to older relatives, with special terms of address for siblings, all varieties of aunt and uncle (father’s brother, mother’s brother’s wife, and so on), grandparents, and the rest. For example, a girl would call her elder brother ‘oppa’ and elder sister ‘unni’; a boy would call his elder brother ‘hyong’and elder sister ‘nuna’. Similarly, while a husband might address his wife by her personal name, she would never use his, but would instead use an honorific or endearment. The honorific applied to parents identifies them by their offspring: ‘appa’means ‘father of’and ‘omma’means ‘mother of’. The father of Soon Yong could be called Soon Yong appa, and his wife Soon Yong omma. When addressing close friends or children, it is usual to add ‘ah’ (after a consonant) or ‘yah’ (after a vowel) after the personal name, as in Soon Hyun ah or Kun Hee yah. Pronunciation There are two official systems for transcribing Korean script into English, but names can appear in a variety of transliterations. For instance, Bak, Pak, and Park are the same name (and sound); likewise Jeong, Jeung, and Jung, or Sook and Suk. There are differences between North and South Korean also: the south uses Yee (rarely Yi), where the north uses Lee for the same name, and so on. The /g/ and /b/ are hard and forceful, but not quite the same as / k/ or /p/. The /ch/ is the hard /tch/ of ‘chair’ and /j/ is a softer / Family Names Common: Bak, Choi, Gang, Gim, Im, Jang, Jeong, Jo,Yee, Yun czh/. The /l/ and /r/ usually sound like /y/, but may be silent. The /a/ is long, as in ‘art’. The /e/ rhymes with that in ‘men’. The /i/ and /ee/ are the same. The /ae/ rhymes with that in ‘bat’, the /oi/ sounds like the /e/ in ‘chess’, and the /eu/ sounds like ‘uh’. The /o/ is short, but the /oh/ is long, as in ‘go’. The /u/ usually is the same as /oo/. The long versions of /o/ and /u/ may be written as ‘eo’ and ‘eu’, but sometimes as ‘yo’ and ‘yu’. Some variant spellings are included in the personal names lists - personal names can be any sounds at all, with no necessary meaning. Some examples: Choi is Cheh, ‘Baek’ is Behk, ‘Seoul’ is Sew-uhl. Standard:An, Bae, Baek, Bak, Ban, Bang, Byun, Cha, Chae, Chang, Choi, Chon, Chu, Chun, Do, Eum, Eun, Gang, Geum, Gi, Gil, Gim, Go, Gong, Goo, Gook, Gwak, Gweon, Gyung, Ha, Ham, Han, Hong, Hwang, Hyun, Im, In, Jang, Jee, Jeon, Jeong, Jin, Jo, Joo, Ma, Maeng, Min, Mo, Mok, Moon, Na, Nam, Noh, Oh, Ok, Pyo, Pyun, Sa, Seo, Seong, Sim, Sin, So, Son, Song, Sul, Tak, Wang, Wee, Won, Woo, Yang, Yee, Yeom, Yeon, Yeou, Yong, Yoo, Yook, Yun Male Personal Names Choose two elements to form a name (1 in 20 use one element only). These selections are typical, but elements can appear in any order. Common: Chol, Dae, Ho, Jin, Jun, Min, Sik, Soo, Soon, Tae First:Ahn, Bong, Byung, Cha, Chae, Chang, Che, Ching, Chol, Chong, Choong, Chul, Chung, Dae, Do, Doh, Dong, Du, Duk, Een, Eui, Eun, Gab, Gang, Gi, Gil, Gong, Gui, Gyong, Gyung, Ha, Hae, Han, Heung, Hien, Ho, Hon, Hong, Hyang, Hye, Hyun, Hyung, Il, In, Ja, Jae, Jai, Jan, Jang, Jaong, Jeong, Jin, Ju, Jun, Ki, Kon, Ku, Kyo, Kyou, Kyu, Man, Mi, Min, Moon, Mu, My, Myon, Myong, Myung, Nun, Po, Sang, Se, Seok, Seong, Seung, Siek, Sin, So, Son, Song, Soo, Soon, Sun, Sung, Tae, Tai, Tong, Wa, Wan, Wen, Weon, Wok, Won, Woo, Wook, Yang, Yong, Yun, Yung Second:A,Ah,Ann, Bae, Bo, Bok, Bong, Cheol, Cheon, Chin, Cho, Chol, Chu, Chul, Chun, Dae, Do, Du, Duck, Eun, Gak, Gi, Gil, Gim, Gin, Gui, Gye, Gyong, Hae, Hah, Hak, Hee, Hel, Hien, Ho, Hoi, Hong, Hoon, Hun, Hwa, Hwan, Hwang, Hyan, Hyuk, Hyun, Hyung, Ik, Il, Jae, Jee, Jin, Jo, Ju, Jun, Jung, Kan, Kee, Keun, Kon, Kor, Ku, Kun, Kwang, Kyoung, Kyu, Kyun, Kyung, Man, Mee, Min, Mo, Moon, Mu, Oh, Ok, Pyong, Sam, Sang, Seob, Seok, Shik, Si, Siek, Sik, Sin, Sok, Song, Soo, Soon, Su, Suk, Sun, Sung, Sup, Tae, Taek, Tak, Teck, U, Uk, Ung, Wa, Waa, Wan, Wha, Whan, Won, Woo, Yeol, Yi, Ying, Yong, Yoon, Yop, Young, Yu, Yul, Yun, Yup Female Personal Names Choose two elements to form a name (1 in 20 use one element only; but 1 in 10 of those use three elements). These selections are typical, but elements can appear in any order. Over 30% of females have Ae, Hy, Ja, Ok, or Sook as a last syllable. Common:Ae, Eun, Hee, Hui, Hy, Ja, Mi, Ok, Sook, Yong First:Ae, Aei, Bok, Byung, Chan, Cho, Choe, Chong, Choon, Chun, Dae, Eun, He, Hea, Hee, Hei, Hui, Hwa, Hy, Hyang, Hye, Hyeong, Hyoi, Hyun, Hyung, Im, In, Ja, Jae, Ji, Jin, Jing, Jong, Joo, Ju, Jung, Kong, Kum, Kun, Kwan, Kyoung, Kyung, Mi, Min, Myong, Myung, Na, Nam, Oh, Ok, Sang, Se, Seon, Seong, So, Son, Soo, Sook, Soon, Sor, Su, Suk, Sun, Sung, Syung, Tae, Ui, Woo, Yang, Ye, Yeun, Yi, Yong, Yoo, Young, Yu, Yun, Yung Second:Ae,Ah, Bae, Bak, Bok, Cha, Dae, Ei, En, Eun, Gae, Gun, Hae, Hee, Hi, Ho, Hoe, Hui, Hwa, Hwan, Hy, Hye, Hyon, Hyun, Hyung, Il, Ja, Jae, Jeong, Jim, Jin, Ju, Jun, Jung, Kak, Kum, Kyoung, Kyung, Me, Mee, Mi, Min, Ming, Myung, Na, Nae, Ok, Oo, Seon, Seong, Sil, Sim, Sin, Sok, Soo, Sook, Soon, Su, Suk, Sun, Tu, Won, Wook, Yei, Yong, Yoon, Young, Yun Mongol The Mongols were a shamanistic people, probably forest hunters in the 7th century, but nomadic pastoral herders by the 11th century. The warring Mongol clans and tribes were united at the start of the 13th century under the rule of Ghengis Khan (Chinggis; Khan or Qan was a title). He broke up the tribal system and replaced it with a very well-organised, effective, and ruthless feudal army. In the 13th and 14th centuries, the Mongol hordes went on to create the largest land empire in history. Family names were not used, although lineages were carefully recorded. If necessary, the father was named, usually using the patronymic suffix ‘-jin’, meaning ‘of’. Bukatai son of Dobun would be Bukatai Dobujin. Personal names were typical for a tribal culture: all had meaning, and often were optimistic or described objects or events associated with the birth. Most could be used for either sex. Popular themes include animals (fox, lark, lion), metals (gold, iron, steel), objects (flower, mirror), colours (crimson, roan and white, yellow), desired traits (long life, loyalty, wisdom), natural Male Personal Names phenomena (fire, thunderbolt), and numbers. A name could be a single word, two words, or a word with a suffix to modify its meaning, for instance, Temur (iron), Mongke-temur (eternal iron), or Temujin (of iron). The last was the birth name of Chinggis Khan: he took the name of Chinggis, ‘the sound iron makes when forged’, when he became Khan of his tribe. Epithets or clan identifications could also be used: Dei the Wise, Soqatai of the Tayyichi’ut clan, and so on. Pronunciation Pronounce all syllables, even final e’s. The /q/ sounds like /kh/ (a slightly softer /k/) and the /g/ is always hard except in /ng/. An apostrophe simply separates vowels. The transliterations from the Uighur script can be inconsistent: at times /g/, /k/, and /q/ can be interchangeable, also /t/ and /d/. Newer spellings have been used (Chinggis for Ghengis, Qubilai for Kublai and so on). The ancient Mongolian pronunciation, until the 12th century, used a hard /g/ where an apostrophe appears, and an aspirated / h/ before vowels starting a word. A’uchu, Achiq-shirun, Adarkidai, Ajai, Alaq, Alaqush-digit-quri, Alchidai, Alchiq, Altan, Altun-ashuq, Amal, Ambaqai, Aqutai, Arajan, Arasen, Arqai-qasar,Arslan, Asha-gambu, Ashiq, Ba’aridai, Badai, Bala, Balaqachi, Barqudai, Batachi, Batu, Bedu’un, Bekter, Belgunutei, Belgutei, Bilge, Bo’orchu, Bodonchar, Borjigidai, Boro’ul, Boroldai, Buch-aran, Bugidei, Bugunutei, Bujek, Bulaqadar, Buqa, Buqatai, Buqatu-salji, Buqu-qadagi, Buri, Burqan, Buyiruq, Cha’adai, Cha’urqai, Cha’urqan, Chanai, Chanar, Chaqa’an-qo’a, Chaqu’au, Chaqurqan, Charaqa, Charaqa-linqu, Checheyigen, Chigidei, Chila’un, Chiledu, Chilger, Chilgutei, Chimbai, Chinggis, Choji-darmala, Chormaqan, Da’aritai, Daritai, Dayyir, Degei, Dei, Dobun, Dodai, Doqolqu, Dorbei, Duwa, Eljigedei, Emel, Erke-qara, Gu’un, Guchu, Guchugur, Guchuluk, Gur, Gurin, Guyigunek, Guyuk, Harqasun, Hobogetur, Horqudaq, Idoqudai, Idu’ut, Ile, Iluge, Inalchi, Inancha, Iturgen, Jajiradai, Jalayirtai, Jamuqa, Janggi, Jaqa, Jaqa-gambu, Jarchi’udai, Jebe, Jebke, Jedei, Jegu, Jelme, Jetei, Jewuredei, Jirqo’adai, Jochi, Jungsai, Jurchedei, Kete, Kiratai, Kishiliq, Kogse’u-sabraq, Kokochu, Kuchu, Lablaqa, Mangqutai, Megujin, Menen, Monggetu, Mongke, Mongke’ur, Monglik, Monke, Morichi, Mulke, Mulqalqu, Muqali, Nachin, Naqu, Narin-ke’en, Naya’a, Nilqa-senggum, Ogodei, Ogole, Ogolei, Okin, Oldaqar, Onggur, Oqda, Oqotur, Otchigin, Otchigui, Qa’atai, Qabichi, Qabul, Qachi, Qachi’u, Qachi’un, Qachin, Qada, Qada’an, Qadac, Qadai, Qadaq, Qaidu, Qali’udar, Qara’udar, Qarachar, Qaraldai, Qarchu, Qarqai, Qasar, Qongqai, Qongqortai, Qongtaqar, Qorchi, Qori’aqachar, Qori-shilemun-taishi, Qori-subechi, Qoridai, Qorilartai, Qorqasun, Qubilai, Quchar, Qudu, Quduqa, Qudus, Qulbari-quri, Qunan, Quri-shilemun, Qutu, Qutula, Quyildar, Sacha, Senggum, Senggum-bilqe, Shidurqu, Shigi-qutuqu, Shigiken, Shiki’ur, Shirgu’etu, Soqor, Sorqan-shira, Soyiketu, Sube’etei, Subegei, Sugegei.je’un, Sukegei, Taichar, Taichu, Taqai, Tarqutai, Tarqutai-kiriltuq, Tayang, Teb-tenggeri, Telegetu, Temuder, Temuge, Temuge-otchigin, Temujin, Temujin-uje, Temur, Tenggeri, Terge, To’oril, Todo’en-girte, Togus, Tolui, Tolun, Toqto’a, Toquchar, Torbi-tash, Torolchi, Toroquoljin, Tuge, Tumbinai, Tusaqa, Ui’urtai, Unggur, Uquna, Usun, Yadir, Yalbaq, Yedi-tubluq, Yegei, Yegu, Yeke-cheren, Yeke.ne’urin, Yisuder,Yisugei, Yisun-te’e, Yisungge Female Personal Names Although not many female names were recorded in the Mongol histories, you can use or adapt male names, since most could be used for either sex. The epithet or name element Qo’a, meaning beautiful or fair, is often female. Al-alta, Al-altun, Alan, Alaqa,Altani, Ba’ariun, Barqujin, Boroqchin, Borte, Botoqui, Cha’ur, Chabi, Chaqa, Chotan, Checheyigen, Doregene, Ebegei, Gurbesu, Ho’elun, Holuiqan, Ibaqa, Kokachin, Mongqoljin, Nomolun, Orbei, Oqul, Qada’an, Qo’ai-maral, Qo’aqchin, Qojin, Qorijin, Qu’urchin, Qulan, Soqatai, Sorqaqatani, Temulun, Yisugun, Yisui Tribe Names Some names of tribes or clans are provided from early Mongol history. They include the original enemies of the Mongol clan (most of whom were absorbed), such as the Tatars, but not those from the later, wider-ranging campaigns. Adargin, Alchi-tatar,Aluqi-tatar,Arulat, Ba’arit, Barulas, Baya’ut, Bayit, Belgunut, Besut, Borjigin, Buda’at, Changshi’ut, Chaqan.tatar, Chinos, Daritai-otchigin, Dataut-tatar, Dorben, Geniges, Guchugur, Ikres, Jalayir, Jarchi’ut, Jirgin, Jurkin, Kereyit, Mangqut, Menen-Ba’arin, Merkit, Mongol, Naiman, Noyakin, Olon-dongqayit, Olqunu’ud, Onggirat, Oyirat, Qabturqas, Qadagin, Qatagin, Qo’as, Qongqotan, Qorolas, Salji’ut, Sarta’ul, Sonit, Sukeken, Tarqut, Tayyichi’ut, To’olos, Tubegen, Tumen-tubegen, Uiqut, Uriangqad, Uru’ut Titles There were a number of titles in use among the Mongols, although the hierarchy wasn’t elaborate. A ruler was a khan (chieftain); any of his wives was a khatun. Beki meant high-ranking or noble. Military terms included cherbi (steward of the army) and ja’ut-quri (commander). Other titles included mergen (hunter, or clever), ba’atur (hero), and anda (blood brother). The terms -beki, -mergen, and -ba’atur were affixed to the names of those who had been granted the status. The title -ong (prince, from Chinese) was the highest honour the khan could confer; it was bestowed on Muqali, one of Chinggis Khan’s principal warriors. Tibetan The term ‘Tibetan’ is used here for related ethnic groups in the Himalayas who speak differing dialects of the Tibetan language. (Tibet was a separate kingdom from the 5th century to the 17th, and for 40 years in the 20th, but otherwise has been under Chinese rule. Many Tibetans left at various times.) These names and naming patterns are used by natives of Tibet and Bhutan, the Sherpas of Nepal, and so on. They are mostly Tibetan Buddhist religious names, virtue names, and day names. The name pattern is a two-part compound personal name such as Tenzing Gyelbu. There is no family name as such (except for royals and nobles), and most names can be used for either sex. Parents may have their own names for a child in addition to the Lama-bestowed names. Names can be changed if desired by ceremony (after illness or bad luck, or on taking religious vows). In modern times, a European name may be included as part of the Personal Names personal name, and clan names can be used as surnames, in which case a wife takes her husband’s clan name upon marriage. Butanese royal titles include Druk Gyalpo (dragon king; the word Gyel means king), Dasho (prince), and Ashi (princess). Where they are used, titles and bynames (village names and so on) precede the personal name. Pronunciation The names here are the standard phonetic transcriptions, and can be pronounced as English, more or less. The /ng/ sounds like that in ‘singer’, and /h/ after a letter represents aspiration, not softening, so /th/ and /ph/ are just /t/ and /p/ pronounced forcefully. The /i/ rhymes with ‘bit’ and the /e/ with ‘hey’; a final ‘e’ is pronounced. There are many dialectical variants of some names: Lhamo, Lhami, Lhamu, Lhemi; Mingma, Mingmar, Migmar, Mikmar; and so on. Choose two different elements to form a compound name, such as Ang Mingma. Jangbu is male-only; Jangmu, Jetsun, and Lhamo are female-only. The most common name elements are the diminutive Ang (small one, beloved), and the days of the week (the day that the bearer was born, so only one per name). Weekdays: Dawa, Lhakpa, Mingma, Nyima, Pasang, Pemba, Phurba Other:Ang, Bhuti, Chamba, Chegi, Chepal, Chembal, Chensum, Chiki, Chiamu, Chiangchup, Chindu, Chirgin, Chokyi, Chokli, Chonyi, Chopali, Chosa, Chokpa, Chongba, Chunbi, Chuti, Chutin, Daku, Danu, Diki, Doka, Dolma, Doma, Domai, Dorje, Doden, Drolma, Dzimi, Dzolpa, Genden, Gombu, Gulu, Gyatsho, Gyelbu, Gyele, Gyelmu, Gyeltsen, Gyerme, Jamling, Jangbu, Jangmu, Jetsun, Jigme, Kaji, Kalden, Kami, Karma, Karsang, Kapkye, Ketsun, Kelsang, Khamdang, Kibi, Kilu, Kitar, Kintsum, Kiu, Kunga, Kusho, Kyentse, Lhamo, Lobsang, Maya, Namkha, Nang, Ngawang, Ngungdu, Norbu, Norgye, Nuku, Nuri, Omu, Ondi, Ongcho, Palden, Palmu, Pelu, Pema, Pendo, Penuri, Phudorje, Phuti, Rita, Rinche, Ringbo, Samden, Sanggye, Sangmu, Sani, Sarkye, Sherap, Sonam, Sunjo, Sungdare, Tashi, Tak, Tarchin, Tarki, Temba, Tendu, Tendzen, Tenzing, Thundu, Thupten, Tikbi, Topke, Tsangdzum, Tsheri, Tsheten, Tshetsu, Tshewang, Tsimbuti, Tsultrim, Tuchi, Tuli, Tutu, Urken, Yakba, Yangchen, Yangdzim, Yangdzum, Zopa The initial parts of some name elements (Da-, Nur-, Phu-) may be prefixed to another on occasion (as in Phudorje) - perhaps 1 in 30, and only to names in the ‘Other’ list. Clan Names These are the traditional Sherpa (properly, Sharwa) clan groups, including alternate names and spellings. Clan names can be used as surnames, and ‘Sherpa’ can be used as an extra surname outside Nepal, since it is well-known, respected, and (usefully for professionals) synonymous with ‘mountain guide’. Chiawa, Chusherwa, Garza, (Gole, Pinasa, Thaktu/Thaktok; brother clans), Goparma, Jongdomba, Khambadze, Lakshindu, Lama, Lhukpa, Mende, Munming, Nawa, (Paldorje/Khumbu or Salaka/Solu), Pankarma, Shangup, Sharwa, Shire BOOK OF NAMES 80 Armenian The Armenians have their own distinctive stock of names as well as borrowings from others. The names here cover the medieval and later periods, although some date from ancient times. Family names were restricted to the nobility under the early feudal rulers. The suffix ‘-ian’(sometimes ‘yan’) in Armenian family names has been used since the Middle Ages; it means ‘son of’ in particular but ‘belonging’ in general. While family names came from occupations, place names, and so on as well as patronymics, the ending is still usually present. The prefix ‘Der’or ‘Ter’indicates the high-status ancestral position of married parish priest. The modern name pattern is the same as the English one: one or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Taline Sarian. Pronunciation Armenia has had its own 36-letter alphabet since the 5th century. There are alternative pronunciations in different parts of the country depending on past influences, so there are possible alternative spellings when transliterating into the Roman alphabet. Most of the names here should be reasonably phonetic. The /a/ is long, as in ‘art’, the /e/ short, as in ‘men’. The /i/ is usually a long /ee/ sound, but can be short, as in ‘bit’, and /o/ and /u/ are long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ respectively. The /g/ is hard and the /s/ sharp, as in ‘kiss’. The /dz/ is the same as in ‘adze’, the /gh/ is a soft guttural sound (like the swallowed French /r/), and the /kh/ is a strong guttural sound (like the German throat-clearing noise /ch/). Clusters of consonants should be run smoothly together, without inserted vowel sounds, so an /m/ sounds like /mm/, not /em/, and so on. Male Personal Names Common:Arakel, Armen, Bedros, Dikran, Hagop, Kevork, Levon, Mardiros, Sarkis, Stepannos, Vartan, Zareh Standard:Adam, Agatan, Aghajan, Aghaton, Alekan, Antranig,Antreas, Ara,Arakel, Aram,Aramayis, Aram,Aran, Ararat, Ardak, Ardavazt, Ardo, Arev,Aristakes, Armayis, Armen, Armenag, Arsen, Arsham, Arto, Artun, Ashod, Askanaz, Atam, Avakim, Avedis, Badrig, Baghdassar, Barsam, Baruir, Bedros, Berj, Besag, Boghos, Calouste, Carnig, Dadour, Dajad, Dickran, Dikran, Diram, Diratsou, Donabed, Drastamad, Dzaghig, Dzeron, Elihu, Ervand, Esayi, Frik, Gabriel, Gagik, Gaidzig, Gazar, Gerasim, Ghazaros, Ghazig, Ghevont, Gomidas, Gosdan, Gosdantin, Grbe, Hago, Hagop, Hagopjan, Haig, Haigaser, Hairabed, Hamazasp, Harout, Hatam, Hetoun, Hmayag, Hounan, Hovag, Hovaness, Hovig, Hovsep, Hrachya, Hrand, Hrant, Isahak, Ishag, Iskhanig, Jirayr, Kamar, Karekin, Karnig, Kegham, Kerovpe, Kevork, Khachi, Khajag, Khecho, Khosrov, Knel, Koriun, Krikor, Krisdosaser, Kurken, Levon, Libarid, Mado, Magar, Maghakia, Makar, Mamas, Manoog, Mardi, Mardiros, Margos, Martin, Mashdotz, Melkon, Mesrob, Meuron, Mher, Migich, Mihran, Minas, Misak, Mnatsagan, Mougouch, Moushegh, Muron, Nahabed, Narek, Nazar, Nerseh, Nerses, Nigoghayos, Norayr, Nshan, Nushan, Ohan, Oshin, Ovagem, Pagur, Palasan, Papken, Parnag, Parouyr, Pasha, Penyanin, Piroum, Raffi, Raphael, Razmig, Rosdom, Sarkis, Seboun, Serovpe, Sevan, Shahan, Shahnazar, Shavarsh, Shnork, Sion, Sirak, Soghomon, Souren, Stepannos, Sumpad, Takes, Tate, Tatevos, Tatos, Tevos, Tigris, Toma, Torcom, Toros, Toumas, Tovma, Vagharshag, Vahakn, Vahan, Vahram, Vanagan, Varak, Varaz, Vart,Vartan, Vartkes, Vasag, Vasil, Vervant, Viken, Virab, Vishab, Vosgran, Vram, Vrouir,Yeghiazar,Yeprem,Yeremia,Yermi, Yervant, Yetvard, Yezegiel, Yezik, Yeznik, Zakar, Zaki, Zareh, Zarmayr, Zekele, Zohrab, Zoravar Female Personal Names Common:Aghavni,Ani,Anoush, Arpiné, Berjouhi, Lucine, Maral, Mariam, Siran, Sona, Takouhi, Taline Standard:Adrine, Agata, Aghavni, Akabi, Alidz, Altoun, Ana, Anahid, Anel, Angel, Angelig, Ani, Anig, Ankine, Anoush, Antaram, Araxia, Araxie,Ardasg, Ardemis, Ardzvig, Areki, Areknazan, Arevalous, Arevig, Arin, Armanoush,Armig, Armine,Arous, Arousiag, Arpenig, Arpie, Arpiné, Arshagouhi, Asdghik, Ashkhen, Azad, Azadouhi, Azkanoush, Azniv, Baidzar, Baidzig, Berjanoush, Berjouhi, Dalita, Derouhi, Dertadouhi, Dikranouhi, Diro, Dirouhi, Diroun, Doudou, Dzaghig, Dzovag, Dzovig, Dzovinar, Dzovo, Eliza, Emasdouhi, Eojen, Gadar, Gayan, Gayaneh, Gayanoush, Goulizar, Haiganoush, Haigouhi, Hamasia, Hasmig, Heghine, Hermine, Horsi, Hourher, Houri, Hranoush, Hratchouhi, Hripsimé, Huliane, Isgouhi, Izabella, Katarine, Keghanoush, Keghouhi, Kinevart, Klkhatir, Knarig, Knkoush, Kohar, Kristine, Liza, Lori, Lucine, Lusaper, Lusentak, Luso, Mairan, Mairanoush, Makrouhi, Manishag, Maral, Maran, Mariam, Mariane, Marie, Marinae, Markarid, Maro, Maroush, Marta, Medakse, Nairi, Nartig, Nartouhi, Nazani, Nazeli, Nazenig, Nemzar, Nemzour, Nevart, Noyemi, Nunufar, Nushig, Nvart, Nver, Osan, Osig, Ovsanna, Pailoun, Pareli, Peprone, Perouz, Persape, Pounig, Purlanti, Ramela, Repega, Rimé, Saghome, Sahaganoush, Sandoukht, Sara, Sarig, Sarine, Satenig, Satig, Seta, Shamiram, Shirin, Shnorhig, Shushan, Shushanig, Shushig, Sima, Siran, Siranoush, Sirarpie, Siroun, Sirvart, Soghovme, Sona, Sossie, Surpik, Surpo, Surpouhi, Surpun, Takou, Takoug, Takouhi, Takoun, Takoush, Talar, Taline, Tamar, Tamara, Tamaria, Tangakin, Tsangali, Tsoghig, Turvand, Turvanda, Undza, Varsenig, Varsig, Vartanouhi, Vartanoush, Varteni, Varteres, Vartouhi, Vartoush, Varvare, Vehanoush, Verzhine, Vosgedzam, Voskie, Vshdouhi, Yeghisabet, Yeraniag, Yeranyag, Yerchanig, Yester,Yhsa, Yugaper, Yughig, Zabel, Zanazan, Zaro, Zaroug, Zarouhi, Zartar, Zepure, Zhenya, Zmroukhd, Zoulvisia, Zuvart Family Names Common: Ghazarian, Hagopian, Hovanian, Kazarian, Kevorkian, Oganessian, Parikian, Petrosyan, Sakian, Sarian, Stephanian, Tashtchian Standard:Abdalian, Aboutiounian, Achikian, Agazarian, Aghassian, Aghyarian, Agopipian, Aidindgian, Aivasian, Akopian, Altounian, Amlian, Andikian, Antounian, Arekelyan, Arkoian, Arshagouni, Arultioun, Arzumanian, Asatrian, Asjian, Atandjian, Avedikian, Azantian, Babanian, Baboudjian, Bagamian, Bakladjian, Baraghian, Barmakszian, Barsekian, Barsoomian, Bazoian, Bedikian, Bekerian, Bezikian, Bodrighian, Boghossian, Boodanian, Bouchakian, Boyatzian, Bullukian, Chahinian, Chaloukian, Charkhian, Chiranian, Chitjian, Chorebanian, Chuchian, Dadikozian, Darmanian, Dekermandjian, Demiraiakian, Depanian, Der.krikorian, Der-stepanian, Derderian, Dgengemian, Djamdjian, Djibinian, Dobalian, Donjoian, Dovlatian, Edesatsi, Eghenian, Elmassian, Erbabian, Eskandarian, Essagian, Ezenkatzi, Festigian, Gagatchian, Garnighian, Gertmenian, Gezalian, Ghazakian, Ghazarian, Ghevondian, Godigian, Golbatsi, Goudian, Goukasian, Grashi, Guevshevian, Gulbenkian, Gurunian, Hagopian, Hajian, Hakobian, Hamparsumian, Hardutounian, Harutunian, Heratsi, Hookasian, Hounanian, Hovanian, Hrechdakian, Injeyan, Izmirlian, Jamgotchian, Jeghelian, Jibotian, Kaakajian, Kachadoorian, Kalachian, Kalakjian, Kalanian, Kalebjian, Kalian, Kanian, Karadjian, Karagiosian, Karakachian, Karamalian, Karaoglanian, Karpouzian, Kasarjian, Kassabian, Kazakian, Kazarian, Kehayan, Kemikisizian, Keoroughlian, Keotahian, Kesadjikyan, Ketentchian, Keuyoghlian, Kevorkian, Khachaturian, Khananian, Kharadjian, Khatcherian, Khederian, Khorenatsi, Khoubesserian, Kirikian, Kochkarian, Kokshanian, Konssoulian, Korkoian, Kouyomdjian, Kovouktchian, Krikorisian, Kuiumgian, Kulhanian, Kurkedjian, Levian, Louthian, Macighian, Maghdessian, Mahtesian, Malachalian, Mamrevian, Mandoyan, Manokian, Mardiossian, Margizian, Mashourian, Matosian, Mazmanian, Meghrigian, Mehranian, Mekikian, Mencherian, Merzifonian, Messerlian, Mgrditchian, Mieklian, Minanian, Mirijanian, Mitilian, Mokhtarian, Moomjian, Moskofian, Moutafian, Muserlian, Nazaretian, Nerguizian, Nigosian, Norayan, Oganessian, Ounian, Ovian, Palatian, Panjarjian, Papelian, Parikian, Pashaian, Pelenghian, Petrosyan, Phrapetsi, Piloyan, Poghossian, Postajian, Rahimian, Roumdiguian, Rshtuni, Sagatelian, Sahagian, Sakezlian, Sakian, Samarkashian, Sarian, Sarkesian, Saroyan, Sasuni, Sayazian, Serimian, Seviahian, Shahenian, Shakarian, Sharloyphian, Shirakatsi, Shirikchian, Shishmanian, Shnorhali, Shukloian, Simitian, Sissyan, Soukiassian, Spandarian, Stephanian, Tacorian, Takvorian, Tankian, Tashtchian, Tatikian, Tavidian, Tchaghayan, Tchalakian, Tchekijian, Tebelekian, Ter-namian, Ter.petrosian, Ter-zibasyan, Titoian, Tookoian, Topjian, Totigian, Tourikian, Tschaikian, Tutunjian, Vosbigian, Yapalamian, Yapundjian, Yazdanian, Yeghiazarian, Yegmalian, Yemenidjian, Yessayan, Zabounian, Zadigian, Zehtabian, Zorthian Dutch The pattern is the same as the English one: one or more personal Dutch has many diminutives of names. Shortened names are names (two is most common) followed by a family name, for common for males and females (say, Henk for Hendrik). Endings example, Marieke Anna Janssen. A man is addressed as such as -je, -tje, -ie, and -ke are used for children’s names, or to Meinherr. tell apart a father and son, as in Jan (senior) and Jantje (junior). The feminine diminuitives -je and -tje become part of the name, The prefixes ‘van’and ‘van der’(meaning ‘of’and ‘of the’) in a and can make a female name of a male one (say, Hendrikje from family name indicate a place: Dutch landholders were inheriting Hendrik). such family names as early as the 13th century. The rest commonly used patronymics until the 16th century, and many Pronunciation family names derive from patronymics: the endings ‘-se’, ‘-sen’, In Dutch, the letters ‘j’, ‘y’, and ‘i’ are more or less equivalent, so or ‘-szen’ (often shortened to ‘-sz’ or ‘-z’ over time) meant ‘son the /j/ sounds like /y/ in ‘van Rijn’ and so on. The /tje/ ending is of’and ‘-x’or ‘-dr’meant ‘daughter of’. Patronymics were kept pronounced something like /ch/. like middle names for a century or two after inheritable family names were in use, so at that time, Sientje Boock might have been known as Sientje Janx Boock. Male Personal Names Common: Bas, Bart, Dennis, Erik, Jan, Jeroen, Kevin, Marcel, Mark, Martijn, Merijn, Michael, Patrick, Peter, Rik, Robin, Sander, Stefan, Tim, Tom Standard: Abraham, Adriaan, Aert, Andries, Anthonius, Anton, Antonis, Antonus, Antoon, Arent, Arie, Arien, Arjen, Arnold, Arnoldus,Arnout, Balt, Baltus, Barend, Barent, Bart, Bartel, Barthild, Bartholomeus, Bartol, Bartolomeus, Bas, Bastiaan, Benk, Bert, Berthold, Bertus, Boudewyn, Boyke, Brian, Carel, Caspar, Cees, Christiaan, Christoffel, Claes, Clarence, Cor, Cornelis, Cornelius, Daam, Daniel, Danny, David, Dennis, Denys, Derrick, Diederik, Dionijs, Dirck, Dirk, Divertje, Dries, Edgar, Eduard, Eduwart, Eelke, Epke, Erik, Ernst, Everard, Evert, Faas, Filip, Filips, Frans, Frederik, Fridolin, Geerard, Geerd, Geert, Geertgen, Gellis, Gerlach, Gerrit, Gervaas, Giel, Gilles, Gillis, Goris, Govert, Gustaaf, Guus, Gysbert, Gyslbert, Hannes, Hannus, Hans, Harbrecht, Harmannus, Harrie, Helmar, Hendrick, Hendrik, Henk, Henni, Henrick, Herbert, Herman, Hermannus, Hieronymous, Hubertus, Hugo, Huilbrecht, Huygen, Igge, Ignaas, Ireneus, Jaap, Jacob, Jacobus, Jakob, Jakobus, Jan, Japic, Jeroen, Jeronymus, Jillis, Joannus, Jochem, Johan, Johannes, Johannus, Jokob, Joop, Joord, Joost, Joris, Jozua, Jurian, Karel, Kasper, Kees, Kevin, Klaas, Kobus, Koen, Koenrad, Koris, Krelis, Kristiaan, Laurens, Leendert, Leo, Lieve, Lieven, Lodewijk, Lodewyk, Loes, Loures, Lucas, Lukas, Maarten, Maas, Mannus, Marcel, Marcus, Mark, Mart, Martijn, Mathias, Matthijs, Matthys, Mattias, Maurits, Meese, Merijn, Merkus, Mertijn, Meus, Mewis, Michael, Nandor, Nelis, Nico, Nicolaes, Niek, Niekolaas, Niels, Nijs, Nikolaas, Nys, Okkert, Patrick, Paul, Paulus, Peter, Petrus, Philip, Piet, Pieter, Pik, Powles, Quentin, Reimar, Rembrandt, Retief, Riaan, Richard, Rik, Robin, Roelof, Rudolf, Rutgert, Rykaard, Saal, Sander, Snouck, Staaf, Staats, Stefan, Steven, Stoffel, Tak, Teun, Teunis, Theodorus, Theunis, Thijs, Thys, Tiebout, Tiede, Tijs, Tim, Tobias, Tom, Toni, Tonnis, Toon, Tymen, Uys, Vaast, Valentijn, Vincent, Wilhelmus, Willem, Wilm, Wim, Wout, Wouter Female Personal Names Common:Anna, Bianca, Chantal, Karin, Kim, Laura, Linda, Lisa, Lisanne, Lotte, Manon, Marieke, Marloes, Nicole, Sandra, Sanne, Stefanie, Susan, Suzanne, Wendy Standard:Aafke, Aaghie, Aaltje, Adda, Adriaantje, Aefje, Agnietje, Aleida, Aletta, Amelia, Anna, Annaatje, Anneke, Anneken, Annetje, Antje, Ariaantje, Baefje, Baltje, Barber, Bartje, Beatrix, Beletje, Bell, Bella, Benedikta, Betje, Bianca, Bloeme, Catalyntie, Catharina, Chantal, Christyntje, Claasje, Clasina, Cokkie, Cornelia, Corrie, Danielle, Denise, Dirkje, Doortje, Eefje, Eelkje, Elas, Eleonara, Elissa, Elizabeth, Elsje, Emmetje, Engeltje, Esther, Eva, Famke, Femke, Femme, Femmeke, Femmetje, Fientje, Floortje, Floris, Francytje, Franscyntje, Fransien, Fransientje, Fransisca, Fransiska, Fransje, Frieda, Fytie, Fytje, Geerta, Geertje, Geertke, Geertruda, Geertruida, Geertruyd, Geesje, Gertuida, Giertje, Gratia, Greet, Grietje, Hanna, Hanneke, Hannie, Hansje, Heleen, Heleentje, Helena, Hendrika, Hendrike, Hendrikje, Hennie, Henriet, Henriette, Herlindis, Heyltje, Hild, Hildo, Hillegonda, Hillegont, Ilsa, Irena, Iris, Jaapje, Jacaomyntje, Jacomina, Janna, Janneken, Jannetje, Jannie, Janny, Jantje, Jessica, Joanna, Joanne, Johanna, Johanne, Josina, Josyntje, Judith, Jutte, Juut, Kaartje, Kaatje, Karin, Katharina, Katrien, Katrijn, Katrintje, Katryne, Katryntje, Kee, Kelly, Kim, Klaartje, Klaasje, Klasyne, Laura, Leentje, Leida, Lena, Lenoor, Leonie, Leonora, Letje, Lidwina, Lientje, Linda, Lisa, Lisanne, Lotje, Lotte, Lysbet, Lysje, Maaicke, Maartje, Machtel, Magda, Magdalena, Mandy, Manon, Margaretha, Margje, Margo, Margreet, Margriet, Margrietje, Margritje, Maria, Marie, Marieke, Marietje, Marijse, Mariken, Marit, Marita, Maritje, Marjolijn, Marloes, Marritje, Martiena, Martyntje, Marytje, Meindert, Melanie, Metje, Michelle, Mieke, Miep, Naatje, Nathalie, Neeltje, Nelleke, Neltje, Nicole, Niesje, Noortje, Nora, Paulyntje, Pheabea, Phoebe, Ria, Rianne, Rika, Roosje, Saar, Saartje, Sandra, Sanne, Sanneke, Santje, Sara, Saskia, Sien, Sientje, Simone, Sina, Siska, Soecke, Sophia, Steentje, Stefanie, Styntje, Susan, Suzanne, Sytie, Sytje, Tanneken, Tessa, Teuntje, Thilly, Toontje, Trijntje, Trintje, Trui, Truida, Truytje, Tryntje, Veerle, Wendy, Willempje, Wyntje, Ydje Family Names Common: Janssen, Janssens, Smit, van Rijn, de Vries, Huyghens, van Dyck, ten Boom, Vanderbeek, Meyer Standard:Aartsen, Aertsen, Bacher, Bakhuysen, Begemann, Bekker, Berghem, Bester, Bissen, Blaeu, Bloemaert, Boeke, Bogaers, Boock, Bosch, Bosman, Botes, Botha, Brentjens, Breughel, Brill, Brink, Brouwer, Brugmans, Bruijn, Calvaert, Christiaanse, Claar, Coers, Coolhaas, Cornelisz, Corneliszoon, Cort, Cuyler, Cuypers, Dahm, Dankerts, Davits, de Boer, de Haan, de Heere, de Houtman, de Jongh, de Klerk, de Kook, de Nijs, de Vries, de Winter, Dedel, Dekker, Dekkers, Devreese, Doorn, Douw, Druppers, Dudok, Edelinck, Eekhoud, Engelsman, Evers, Fruytiers, Galle, Geertz, Geurts, Gheeraerts, Gies, Gieysztor, Goosen, Graaf, Groeneveldt, Groos, Groote, Haacke, Haarhuis, Hackenbroch, Haeckle, Hals, Hendrickse, Hoekstra, Hofstra, Hoornik, Horenbout, Hurgronje, Huyghen, Huyghens, Jansen, Jansens, Janssen, Janssens, Jonge, Jongmans, Jopie, Kalff, Kamerling, Kempers, Kepper, Ketel, Keurvorst, Kluivert, Klusener, Knippschd, Koch, Koekkoek, Koopmans, Krige, Krom, Kruger, Kuyper, Leenhoff, Lorentz, Luytens, Maas, Maertens, Malan, Markgraaf, Matthijse, Mehrtens, Meijer, Memlinc, Metsys, Meyer, Moerenhout, Mor, Mulder, Muller, Muskens, Mytens, Naertens, Naude, Neefs, Nieuwenhuys, Noorlander, Ooms, Ophuysen, Oremans, Osterhout, Patinir, Petri, Pierterse, Poeze, Poortman, Quasten, Ramaalas, Reitz, Reizinger, Rienks, Roggeveen, Rorendaal, Saal, Schalken, Scharer, Schefold, Scholten, Schoon, Seedorf, Siemerink, Smit, Smuts, Snyder, Somer, Sonnefeld, Springsteen, Stapel, Steen, Swart, Tanchel, te Haar,Teerlinc, Teeuw, Tefft, ten Boom, ten Brink, Tersteeg, Thijs, Thyssen, Tiele, Tilborch, Tops, van Amstel, van Calcar, van Daalen, van der Berg, van der Goes, van der Hagen, van der Heyden, van der Leur, van der Roe, van der Waal, van Dyck, van Egmont, van Erp, van Heekeren, van Heemskerck, van Heutz, van Hien, van Houten, van Leur, van Leuven, van Mook, van Noort, van Nuyssen, van Oost, van Rees, van Rie, van Rijn, van Rooyen, van Tiemh, van Wyk, Vanderbeek, Vansteenwijk, Veer, Veldman, Venter, Verbeek, Verken, Verlinden, Verstappen, Verwoerd, Vinge, Vink, Vliese, Voorhies, Vorster, Vos, Vosburgh, Vries, Wessels, Wiese, Wijnants, Wijnberg, Wilken, Willet, Wouterse, Wouterson, Zelle Medieval Dutch In medieval times, Holland was a group of small, often feuding, many variants of some names (at least 20 of Jan, which was the provinces. As well as using bynames rather than family names, most popular male name). the more frequent personal names also differed. There were Male Common:Arend, Bartolomeus, Claesekiin, Coen, Coppijn, Danckaert, Dirk, Eduard, Frankrijk, Gerrit, Gillis, Hendrick, Jan, Klaas, Matheeus, Oelard, Otto, Pieter, Renger, Willem Female Common: Agnes, Alijt, Annen, Eilburg, Elen, Filippa, Gheertruud, Gheile, Heile, Isabella, Johanna, Katerine, Kerstecen, Lijsbet, Machteld, Margaretha, Maria, Trude, Yaen, Zoete Finnish Modern naming patterns are the same as those for English: one Pentti might have been known as Tarmo Pentinpoika and Satu or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Pentintytär. Matti Hakonen. Pronunciation The stress always falls on the first syllable. The /a/ sounds like Finnish is closer to continental tongues than it is to Scandina-that in ‘dark’, the /u/ like that in ‘bull’. The /e/, /i/, and /o/ are vian, but it has been heavily influenced by the latter. Many short, the /ö/ sounds like /oeh/, and /ä/ sounds like the ‘e’ in Finnish names are very old indeed. Although place name bed. The /ou/ rhymes with ‘go’. The /j/ is pronounced /y/; the derivatives followed on, the basis of many family names was other consonants are hard, but /k/, /p/, and /t/ are slightly softer patronymic: commonly ‘poika’ meaning ‘son’ or ‘tytär’ meaning than in English. Some letters (c, q, x, w, z) are not used in Finnish ‘daughter’ was added after the genitive (possessive) case of the as such, although ‘w’ can be an old way to write ‘v’. Double father’s personal name. For instance, the son and daughter of vowels and consonants are long, almost as if the letter were said twice, so ‘Tuuli’ sounds like Tuh-uhlih, and ‘Jarkko’ like Jark.koh. Male Personal Names Common:Aleksi,Antti,Arttu, Heikki, Jere, Jesse, Joni, Joona, Juho, Kimmo, Kimmo, Lauri, Markus, Matti, Niko, Santeri, Teemu, Tuomas, Urho, Valtteri Standard:Aalto, Aapo,Aappo, Aarre, Aarto, Aatos, Aatto,Aatu, Ahti, Ahto, Ahvo, Aimo, Aki, Aku, Albert, Ale, Aleksi, Ali, Alpi, Alpo, Altti, Ano, Antero, Antti, Arhippa, Arho, Ari, Armas, Arsi, Arttu, Arvi, Arvo, Asko, Asmo, Atro, Atso, Atte, Auno, Auvo, Bengt, Eemeli, Eetu, Eikki, Elias, Ensio, Esko, Hannu, Heikki, Heimo, Henrik, Herkko, Hiski, Iikka, Iiri, Iiro, Ilkka, Ilmari, Ilmo, Ilpo, Ilppo, Into, Isko, Ismo, Isto, Jalmari, Jalo, Jami, Jari, Jarkko, Jarko, Jarmo, Jarno, Jere, Jesse, Johannes, Joni, Joona, Joonas, Jori, Jouko, Jouni, Jouo, Juha, Juhani, Juho, Jukka, Juska, Juuso, Jyri, Jyrki, Kaj, Kalervo, Kaleva, Kalevi, Kalle, Kari, Karri, Kauko, Kauno, Kauto, Keijo, Keimo, Kerkko, Kimmo, Kristian, Kuisma, Kullervo, Lalli, Lassi, Lauri, Leevi, Lyly, Mainio, Manne, Manu, Markus, Matias, Matti, Mauno, Mies, Mika, Mikael, Mikko, Niko, Nuutti, Nyyrikki, Oiva, Okko, Olavi, Onni, Orvo, Oskari, Osmo, Ossi, Otso, Panu, Pasi, Pekka, Pellervo, Pentti, Petteri, Pirkka, Pyry, Raimo, Rami, Rauno, Reima, Reino, Reko, Reku, Roope, Sakari, Saku, Sampo, Samppa, Santeri, Santtu, Seppo, Sipi, Sippo, Soini, Sulevi, Sulho, Sulo, Tahvo, Taisto, Taito, Tapani, Tapio, Tarmo, Tarvo, Tatu, Teemu, Teijo, Tenho, Teppo, Terho, Terjo, Tero, Teuvo, Toimi, Toivo, Tomi, Touko, Tuomas, Turkka, Turo, Tuukka, Tuure, Ukko, Uljas, Untamo, Unto, Uolevi, Uoti, Urho, Urmas, Urpo, Uuno, Väinämö, Väinö, Valio, Valo, Valtteri, Veijo, Veikko, Veiko, Veini,Veli, Vesa,Ville,Visa, Voitto, Ylermi, Yrjänä Female Personal Names Common:Aino,Anna, Anni, Ella, Emma, Hanna, Iida, Jenna, Jenni, Laura, Milla, Nea, Noora, Oona, Pinja, Roosa, Sanni, Sara, Ulla, Veera Standard:Aamu, Aija, Aila,Aili, Aina,Aini, Ainikki,Aino, Aira,Airi, Alli, Amanda,Anna,Anneli,Anni, Anniina,Annikki, Ansa, Anu, Arja,Armi,Asla,Asta,Auli,Aulikki,Aurora, Eija, Eila, Eine, Eini, Eira, Elina, Ella, Emilia, Emma, Enni, Erja, Erkka, Essi, Eveliina, Hanna, Heini, Helena, Hellevi, Helli, Helmi, Helvi, Henna, Heta, Hilja, Hilkka, Hilla, Hille, Hillevi, Hilma, Iida, Ilma, Ilmatar, Ilmi, Ilta, Immi, Impi, Inari, Inka, Inkeri, Irja, Iro, Jasmin, Jatta, Jenna, Jenni, Johanna, Jonna, Julia, Kaarina, Kaino, Kaisa, Kanerva, Karoliina, Kastehelmi, Katariina, Kielo, Kristiina, Kukka, Kylli, Kyllikki, Lahja, Laina, Laura, Lemmikki, Lempi, Liisa, Lumi, Lumikki, Lyyli, Maiju, Maikki, Maila, Maili, Mailis, Maini, Manta, Maria, Marjatta, Marjo, Marjukka, Marjut, Mattila, Meeri, Meri, Merja, Mervi, Mia, Mielikki, Miia, Miimu, Milja, Milla, Mimmi, Minna, Minttu, Mira, Mirja, Mirka, Mirkka, Mirva, Nea, Noora, Oili, Oivi, Onerva, Oona, Orvokki, Osma, Outi, Pälvi, Pilvi, Pinja, Pirita, Piritta, Pulmu, Raija, Raila, Raili, Raisa, Raita, Rauha, Rauna, Rauni, Reija, Riina, Riita, Ritva, Roosa, Ruusu, Saana, Saija, Saila, Saima, Saimi, Saini, Sanelma, Sani, Sanna, Sanni, Sara, Satu, Seija, Selja, Senja, Senni, Siiri, Sini, Sinikka, Sirja, Sirke, Sirkka, Sirkku, Sirpa, Sisko, Sivi, Sofia, Sohvi, Soila, Soile, Soili, Sointu, Solja, Sorja, Suila, Suometar, Susanna, Suvi, Taija, Taimi, Taina, Talvikki, Tarja, Taru, Teija, Tellervo, Terhi, Terhikki, Terttu, Titta, Toivo, Tuija, Tuire, Tuomi, Tuovi, Tutta, Tuttu, Tuukka, Tuula, Tuuli, Tuulia, Tuulikki, Tuure, Tyni, Tytti, Tyyne, Tyyni, Ulla, Ulpu, Unelma, Uolevi, Usko, Uula, Valma, Valpuri, Vanamo, Vappu, Varma, Varpu, Vaula, Veera, Vellamo, Venla, Viena, Vieno, Virpi, Virva, Virve, Vuokko Family Names Common: Hämäläinen, Heikkinen, Järvinen, Korhonen, Koskinen, Laine, Mäkelä, Mäkinen, Nieminen, Virtanen Standard:Aakula, Aaltonen,Ahlapuro, Ahtisaari,Aikio, Airikkala, Alapassi, Alatalo, Aunula, Carpelan, Erkko, Haapajarvi, Haapaniemi, Haavikko, Hakkinen, Hakonen, Halvari, Hämäläinen, Hännenen, Hannila, Harju, Hartikainen, Hästesko, Hättönen, Heikkilä, Heikkinen, Heilimo, Hinkkanene, Hirvimäki, Hirvonen, Huhtamo, Huovinen, Hurskainen, Husu, Hynninen, Iiasalo, Immonen, Irjala, Isosomppi, Isotalo, Jaatinen, Jänne, Jarvilehto, Järvinen, Jeskanen, Juteini, Kaakinen, Kääriänen, Kallela, Kallionkieli, Kaltiainen, Kanniainen, Kapanen, Karhu, Karila, Karppinen, Karsikas, Karttunen, Karvonen, Kekkonen, Kellomäki, Kikkunen, Kilpinen, Kivelä, Kiveli, Kivi, Kivimaki, Koistinen, Koivisto, Koivosto, Koivu, Koivula, Kokko Kohva, Koli, Kononen, Koppala, Korhonen, Koskinen, Koskio, Kuikkonen, Kukkamo, Kumpula, Kuusi, Kuusisto, Kytönen, Laakkonen, Lahtela, Laine, Lajunen, Lammasniemi, Lappi, Lassila, Laukkonen, Lavonen, Lehto, Lehväslaiho, Leskinen, Linna, Linnankivi, Lipponen, Lönrot, Lumiala, Luukkonen, Määttä, Mäenpää, Mäkelä, Mäkilä, Mäkinen, Makkonen, Malinen, Mannermaa, Manninen, Markula, Melakoski, Merikanto, Merikken, Mikkola, Murtosaari, Muttilainen, Myllyniemi, Näränen, Narhi, Nieminen, Niilola, Nikkanen, Noronen, Nurkka, Nurmii, Ojanen, Orasmaa, Paakkonen, Paasikivi, Pakkarinen, Palonen, Parkkinen, Peltosaari, Peurajärvi, Pietilä, Piironen, Pimiä, Pöljänen, Poutiainen, Pöyhtäri, Pykkonen, Rahnasto, Räihä, Raikkonen, Rantamäki, Raunio, Reema, Rekiaro, Riekkinen, Rikkinen, Rintala, Ronkainen, Rönkkö, Ruoho, Ryti, Saari, Saarinen, Saintula, Sallinen, Salojärvi, Salomäki, Salonen, Sarpaneva, Sarri, Siilasvuo, Sillanpää, Sinkonnen, Sirkiä, Sirola, Soimakallio, Sookari, Suomalainen, Suviala, Taitto, Takala, Talonen, Talvela, Tapionlinna, Tiainen, Tiihonen, Tiilikainen, Tiuraniemi, Toiviainen, Tuominen, Tuomioja, Tykkylainen, Uurainen, Uusitalo, Vaahtera, Vaaraniemi, Vacca, Vähätalo, Vaijärvi, Väinöla, Vallinen, Valtari, Vänskä, Varjo, Varonen, Veintie, Verkko, Viitasalo, Vilhu, Vilkuna, Virén, Virjonen, Virtanen, Vuoti, Wirkkala,Yrjö Medieval Finnish As well as using bynames rather than family names, the more frequent personal names also differed. In medieval times, Finland was part of Sweden, and Swedish names were widespread. There were many variants of some names (such as Johannes, the most popular male name). Male Common:Aarnikka,Asikko,Aslak, Berend, Bertil, Björn, Erik, Ervasti, Haakon, Häsikkä, Heikki, Henrik, Johannes, Kauppi, Luukas, Menikko, Pentti, Reko, Tuokki, Vämmä Female Common:Adelitsa, Agnes, Dorathea, Elin, Elseby, Esteri, Gertrud, Greta, Gudlög, Ingrid, Johanna, Katariina, Läpsä, Lucia, Margit, Märta, Miksitär, Rikitsa, Sigrid, Suomi French The pattern is the same as the English one: one or more personal names (two is most common) followed by a family name, for example, Pierre Alain Smith. He is addressed as Pierre by those who know him, M’sieu Smith more formally, Monseiur Pierre Smith in full. An unmarried woman is addressed as Mademoiselle (Mme), and a married one as Madame. Some personal names are used for both males and females (such as ‘Marie’) and some just sound the same (‘René’ for males and ‘Renée’ for females), so the French usually use titles such as Madame to avoid possible confusion. Hyphenated personal names are reasonably common. Male Personal Names Pronunciation French pronunciation is easy if you’ve heard it spoken, but watch the accents. The c-cedilla /ç/ sounds like /s/, and /ch/ sounds like /sh/. The e-acute /é/ rhymes with ‘hey’ (as does /ei/), and the other e’s sound like the one in ‘men’; a final ‘e’ is silent unless it is accented. The /eau/ rhymes with ‘go’ and /oi/ sounds like /wa/. The /i/ is a long /ee/ sound. The /gn/ is like /ny/, and /j/ like /zh/, as is /g/ before ‘e’ or ‘i’, although it is hard otherwise. The /th/ is pronounced /t/ and /qu/ as /k/. Final consonants can often be silent (so ‘chat’ is pronounced Shah) and vowels before /n/ are nasal. Some examples: ‘Monique’ is pronounced moh-Neek, ‘Giselle’ is zhee-Zell, ‘François’ is frahn-Swah, ‘Agnes’ is Ah-nyes, ‘Claude’ is Clowd, ‘Richard’ is ree-Shard, ‘Paris’ is pah-Ree, ‘Joie’is Zhwa, and ‘René’is reh-Nay. Common:Alexis, Antoine, Benjamin, Édouard, Guillame, Matthieu, Nicholas, Pierre, Thibaud, Thomas Standard:Abel, Absolon, Achille,Adam, Adolphe, Adrien,Aimé, Alain, Alan,Albert, Alex, Alexandre, Alexis, Alfred, Allan, Alphonse, Ambroise, Amédée, Anatole, André, Anselme, Anthony, Antoine, Antonin, Aristide, Armand, Arnaud, Arsène, Arthur, Auguste, Augustin, Aurèle, Aurelien,Axel, Aymeric, Baltasar, Baptiste, Barnabé, Barthélémy, Basile, Bastien, Baudouin, Benjamin, Benoit, Bernard, Bertrand, Blaise, Boniface, Brice, Bruno, Bryan, Cédric, Célestin, Cesaire, César, Charles, Charles-Henri, Christian, Christophe, Christopher, Claude, Clément, Colombain, Constant, Constantin, Corentin, Corin, Damien, Daniel, David, Denis, Dennis, Désiré, Didier, Dieudonné, Dimitri, Diodore, Dion, Donat, Donatien, Dorian, Dylan, Edgar, Edgard, Edmond, Édouard, Eloi, Émile, Émilien, Emon, Enzo, Eric, Erwan, Étienne, Eugène, Eustache, Évariste, Evrard, Fabien, Fabrice, Felicien, Félix, Ferdinand, Fernand, Fiacre, Firmin, Florent, Florentin, Florian, François, Frédéric, Gabriel, Gaétan, Gaspard, Gaston, Gautier, Geoffroi, Georges, Gérald, Gérard, Géraud, Germain, Gervais, Gilbert, Gilles, Godelieve, Gratien, Grégoire, Guillame, Guillaume, Gustave, Guy, Hector, Henri, Herbert, Hercule, Hervé, Hilaire, Honoré, Horace, Hubert, Hugo, Hugues, Humbert, Ignace, Iréné, Isidore, Jacques, Jacques-Yves, Jason, Jean, Jean-Baptiste, Jean-Charles, Jean-Claude, Jean-Jacques, Jean-Louis, Jean-Luc, Jean-Marie, Jean-Michel, Jean-Paul, Jean-Pierre, Jean-Yves, Jérémie, Jérémy, Jérôme, Joachim, Joël, Jonathan, Jordan, Joseph, Josue, Jourdain, Jules, Julien, Juste, Justin, Kevin, Kilian, Killian, Lambert, Laurent, Lazare, Léandre, Léo, Léon, Léonard, Léonce, Léopold, Lilian, Lionel, Loic, Lothaire, Louis, Loup, Luc, Lucas, Lucien, Mael, Marc, Marc-Antoine, Marcel, Marcellin, Marin, Marius, Martin, Mathias, Mathieu, Mathis, Mattéo, Matthieu, Maurice, Maxence, Maxime, Maximilien, Mehdi, Michel, Mickaël, Modestine, Mohamed, Narcisse, Nathan, Nazaire, Nicholas, Nicodème, Nicolas, Noé, Noel, Odilon, Olivier, Onesime, Papillion, Pascal, Paschal, Patrice, Patrick, Paul, Perceval, Philbert, Philibert, Philippe, Pierre, Pons, Prosper, Quentin, Rainier, Raoul, Raphaël, Raymond, Régis, Rémi, Rémy, Renard, Renaud, René, Reynaud, Richard, Robert, Robin, Roch, Rodolph, Rodolphe, Rodrigue, Roger, Roland, Romain, Ryan, Sacha, Samuel, Sébastien, Serge, Séverin, Simon, Sofiane, Stéphane, Steven, Sylvain, Sylvestre, Tanguy, Theirn, Théo, Théodore, Théophile, Thibaud, Thibault, Thibaut, Thierry, Thomas, Timothée, Tom, Tony, Toussaint, Tristan, Ulrich, Urbain, Valentin, Valère, Valéry, Vespasien, Victor, Vincent, Virgile, William, Xavier, Yanis, Yann, Yannic, Yves, Yvon Female Personal Names Common:Aurélie, Camille, Caroline, Charlotte, Claire, Émilie, Marie, Pauline, Sophie, Stéphanie Standard: Adélaïde, Adèle, Adeline, Adorée, Adrienne, Agathe, Agnès, Aimée,Alexandra, Alexia, Alice, Alicia, Aline, Alison, Alphonsine, Amandine, Amarante, Ambre, Amélie, Anaëlle, Anaïs, Andréa, Andrée, Angèle, Angeline, Angelique, Anna, Anne, Anne-Louise, Anne-Marie, Annette, Antoinette, Apolline, Arianne, Arienne, Arlette, Aude, Audrey, Aurélie, Aurore, Avril, Axelle, Barbara, Béatrice, Bénédicte, Benjamine, Benoite, Bernadette, Bernardine, Berthe, Blanche, Brigitte, Camille, Carine, Carla, Carole, Caroline, Cassandra, Catherine, Cécile, Céleste, Célestine, Célia, Céline, Cerise, Chantal, Chanté, Charline, Charlotte, Chloé, Christelle, Christine, Claire, Clara, Clarisse, Claudette, Claudine, Clémence, Clementine, Cloé, Clothilde, Colette, Coline, Constance, Coralie, Corinne, Cosette, Danièle, Danielle, Delphine, Denise, Désirée, Diane, Dianne, Dieudonnée, Dominique, Donatienne, Doriane, Dorothée, Edwige, Eléonore, Éliane, Elisa, Elisabeth, Élise, Élodie, Eloise, Elsa, Emeline, Émilie, Emma, Emmanuelle, Esmée, Estelle, Esther, Eugénie, Eulalie, Eva, Eve, Evette, Fabienne, Fabiola, Fanny, Faustine, Félicie, Felicienne, Fernande, Fifi, Flavie, Fleur-Aimée, Florette, Florianne, Francine, Françoise, Frédérique, Gabrielle, Gaetane, Geneviève, Georgette, Georgine, Germaine, Ghislain, Ghislaine, Gigi, Gilberte, Gisèle, Giselle, Gisselle, Hannah, Hélène, Héloïse, Henriette, Hermine, Honorine, Hortense, Hyacinthe, Inès, Irène, Irénée, Isabeau, Isabelle, Jacinthe, Jacqueline, Jade, Jeanine, Jeanne, Jeannette, Jeannine, Jessica, Joceline, Joelle, Jolie, Josée, Josèphe, Joséphine, Josette, Josiane, Judith, Julia, Juliane, Julie, Julienne, Juliette, Justine, Kelly, Kenza, Laetitia, Laura, Laure, Laure-Hélène, Laurentine, Laurette, Laurie, Laurine, Léa, Lena, Léonie, Léonne, Léontine, Liane, Lisa, Lise, Lisette, Lola, Lou, Louise, Luce, Lucie, Lucienne, Lucile, Lucille, Lucinde, Lucrece, Ludivine, Lunete, Lydie, Madeleine, Madeline, Maelle, Maeva, Manon, Marceline, Marcelle, Marcellette, Marcelline, Margaux, Margot, Marguerite, Marie, Marie-Anne, Marie-Claire, Marie-Françoise, Marie-Hélène, Marie-Léonie, Marie-Thérèse, Marielle, Mariette, Marina, Marine, Marion, Marise, Marthe, Martine, Mathilde, Maximilienne, Mélanie, Mélisande, Mélissa, Michèle, Micheline, Michelle, Mignon, Mirabelle, Mireille, Monique, Morgane, Muriel, Myriam, Nadia, Nadine, Natalie, Nathalie, Nicole, Nicolette, Nina, Ninette, Ninon, Noella, Noelle, Noémie, Oceane, Odette, Odile, Olympe, Ophélie, Oriane, Orianne, Ouida, Pascale, Pascaline, Paule, Paulette, Pauline, Perrine, Philippine, Placide, Rachel, Raymonde, Rébecca, Régine, Reine, Renée, Rochelle, Rolande, Romaine, Romane, Rosalie, Rose, Rose-Lucie, Roselle, Rosemonde, Rosette, Rosine, Roxane, Roxanne, Sabine, Salomé, Sandrine, Sarah, Seraphine, Sévérine, Sidonie, Solange, Solène, Sophie, Stéphanie, Suzanne, Suzette, Sybille, Sylvaine, Sylvia, Sylviane, Sylvianne, Sylvie, Tatienne, Thérèse, Toinette, Valentine, Valérie, Véronique, Victoire, Victoria, Victorine, Vienne, Violette, Vivienne, Yolande, Yseult, Yvette, Yvonne, Zephyrine, Zézette, Zoé Family Names Common: Bernard, Bertrand, David, Dubois, Durand, Fournier, Garcia, Girard, Laurent, Lefèbvre, Leroy, Martin, Michel, Moreau, Petit, Richard, Robert, Roux, Simon, Thomas Standard: Abelin, Abiven, Abrioux, Agenet, Aignan, Alaize, Alary,Allain, Allaire, André, Andrieux, Andrus, Angot, Apavou, April, Armand, Arpin, Arsenault, Asselin, Aubé, Aubert, Aubier, Aubron, Aubry, Auclair, Audette, Audinot, Aurillac, Auvinet, Avare, Ayrault, Babineaux, Bachelot, Bachere, Bacquet, Baguet, Balladur, Bardet, Baroin, Barrière, Barrot, Bascou, Bassot, Bataille, Bauché, Baumel, Bazaine, Béart, Beauchamps, Beaudry, Beaulieu, Beausoleil, Becquerel, Bédard, Bégin, Béland, Bélanger, Bellemare, Benoit, Béraud, Bergelin, Bergerat, Bernard, Bernier, Berthiaume, Bertholet, Bertrand, Besson, Bibeau, Bienvenu, Biessy, Billard, Billardon, Binet, Birraux, Biset, Bizier, Blais, Blanc, Blanchard, Bloche, Blondeau, Bochart, Boileau, Bois, Boisseau, Boisserie, Boisvin, Boncoeur, Bonneau, Bonnet, Bonrepaux, Bordelon, Bosson, Bottereau, Bouchard, Boucher, Boucheron, Boudreaux, Bouisault, Boulanger, Boulard, Bourchier, Bourgeois, Bourget, Bousquet, Boutin, Bouvard, Brangeard, Bressand, Breton, Briand, Brillard, Brisson, Broussard, Brulé, Brun, Bussiere, Cacheux, Cailler, Calmat, Capet, Cardot, Carmouche, Caron, Carré, Carriere, Cartier, Cassou, bOOK OF NAMES 87 Catineau, Cavaillé, Cazeneuve, Chabert, Chabot, Chaillé, Chambon, Chapais, Charasse, Charé, Charette, Charié, Charles, Charpentier, Charron, Chartier, Chassé, Chatelain, Chaussé, Chauveau, Chazal, Chenard, Cherioux, Chevalier, Chevallier, Cheysson, Cleary, Clément, Cleron, Cloutier, Cochet, Collange, Comeau, Corond, Coté, Couderc, Coulomb, Courtois, Cousteau, Coustier, Couture, Cressac, Cros, Cyr, d’Aubert, Dagenais, Daniel, Darthere, Dasseux, Daubresse, Dauge, Dauvergne, Dauzat, David, de Charette, de Courson, de la Nord, de Laleuf, de Louche, de Mearau, de Mornay, de Panafieu, de Robien, de Ronsard, de Rosny, de Villiers, Deblois, Decaudin, Defontaine, Degauchy, Dehaine, Dejean, Delambre, Delebarre, Delibes, Delumeau, Demay, Demers, Deniaud, Denis, Denise, Deprez, Derosier, Deschamps, Deschenes, Desorcy, Desrosiers, Desvaux, Devaud, Devoe, Dion, Dionne, Doiron, Doré, Doucet, Douyère, Dreyfus, Dubois, Dubroc, Ducharme, Ducote, Dufaure, Dugas, Duhamel, Dumont, Dupéré, Dupont, Dupré, Dupuis, Durand, Durieux, Duron, Dusserre, Egert, Estienne, Evin, Fabre, Facon, Faichaud, Faucher, Faure, Ferland, Ferrand, Filleul, Fleury, Fontaine, Forissier, Fortier, Foucault, Foucher, Fournier, Françaix, François, Frêche, Frederic, Fremont, Fréneau, Fromion, Gabillon, Gabrignon, Gachard, Gaillard, Galeppe, Gamache, Ganneau, Gantier, Garceau, Garcia, Garneau, Garnier, Garrigues, Gaubert, Gauchier, Gaudeau, Gaudet, Gaulin, Gauthier, Gautier, Gauvin, Généreux, Genin, Gentille, Gérard, Gervais, Gilbert, Girard, Giraud, Giroux, Godfrain, Godin, Gosselin, Goudeau, Goulard, Goulet, Gouriou, Gourrier, Gousse, Gouzes, Grasset, Grégoire, Grenier, Grignon, Grimault, Grondin, Guédon, Guérin, Guichon, Guidault, Guillemain, Guillet, Guyard, Hachée, Hamel, Hascoët, Hébert, Hélion, Hellier, Henry, Herault, Hériaud, Hermier, Hervé, Hollande, Houde, Houellebecq, Houle, Huppé, Huwart, Idrac, Imbert, Jacquemart, Jacques, Janquin, Jette, Joffre, Jolicoeur, Joliot, Jouhanin, Juneau, Juppé, L’anglais, L’heureux, L’hiver, Labarre, Labauve, Labbé, Labelle, Laborde, Labrecque, Lacasse, Lachance, Lacour, Lacroix, Lafleur, Lafontaine, Laforest, Laforge, Laframboise, Lagrange, Lajeunesse, Lajoie, Lalande, Lambert, Lamontagne, Lamour, Lanctot, Langelier, Langevin, Langlais, Lapierre, Laporte, Laroux, Laurent, le Bris, le Chat, le Chevallier, le Roux, le Roy, le Vern, Lebel, Leblanc, Lebrun, Leclerc, Ledoux, Leduc, Lefait, Lefèbvre, Lefèvre, Lefort, Legault, Legrand, Lejeune, Lemaitre, Lemieux, Lemoine, Lenoir, Léotard, Lepage, Lequiller, Leroux, Leroy, Lessard, Létourneau, Leveillé, Levert, Levesque, Lopez, Louet, Louis, Lussier, Machault, Madelin, Madrelle, Malon, Marceau, Marcellin, Marchand, Marché, Marié, Marier, Marin, Mariot, Marlin, Marot, Marquis, Marteau, Martin, Martinez, Masse, Massillon, Masson, Mathieu, Mathus, Maubois, Maurer, Mazuret, Ménard, Mercier, Meriot, Métadier, Métais, Michaud, Michel, Michon, Migaud, Mignon, Millon, Mondet, Monjeau, Montané, Montebourg, Moreau, Morel, Morency, Morin, Motté, Mouton, Müller, Muselier, Nadeau, Napert, Narquin, Nauche, Nayral, Néricault, Neveu, Nicolas, Nicolin, Nisard, Normand, Olier, Olivier, Ouellette, Outin, Paillé, Pajon, Pandraud, Papineau, Paquet, Paquin, Paradis, Paré, Paul, Peillon, Pelchat, Pélissard, Pelletier, Pépin, Péricard, Pérol, Perreault, Perrin, Pery, Petit, Petrie, Picard, Pingault, Poiret, Poissonnier, Pons, Pontier, Pouchard, Poulin, Prejean, Proulx, Provencher, Prudhomme, Querard, Quessy, Quilès, Rabethe, Racicot, Racine, Raimond, Rancourt, Ratté, Rebillard, Recours, Régis, Renaudel, Reny, Reynaud, Ribault, Richard, Richer, Rideau, Rigal, Rigaud, Rimbert, Robert, Robillard, Robin, Roche, Rochefort, Rochier, Rodet, Roi, Rollet, Rouger, Rouleau, Rouquet, Rousseau, Roussel, Routhier, Roux, Ruel, Sabourin, Sainte-Marie, Salles, Sandrier, Sarre, Saunier, Sauvadet, Séguin, Serra, Sève, Sibille, Simard, Simon, St Crois, St Germain, St Pierre, Suchet, Taittinger, Tallien, Tanguay, Tassin, Tavernier, Tercier, Terrasse, Tessier, Tété, Théberge, Theriot, Therrien, Thibault, Thibodet, Thivierge, Thomas, Thoreau, Tisserand, Touchette, Toulouse, Touraine, Trupin, Turcotte, Vachet, Vachon, Vaillancourt, Valente, Valleix, Vasseur, Vauzelle, Vaxès, Vegnault, Veilleux, Vergnier, Vérien, Vernaudon, Verreau, Vertefeuille, Veyret, Vézien, Vidalies, Viens, Villeneuve, Vincent, Viollet, Voisin, Vuillaume, Yvon Medieval French French names, like the language, started with Gaulish Celtic, (Those Normans who moved to England were speaking English absorbed much Latin, and softened the Germanic additions (for even earlier.) The names in use overlapped. The common names instance, Karl became Charles, Ludwig became Louis). Even apply across France, but local variants were favoured in the names spelled the same as Germanic or Anglo-Saxon names regions. sound different. France was not uniform in medieval times, though. There were various provinces, kingdoms, and dialects, In general only a personal name was used, with a byname if each with different names or name variants prevalent. The north needed. Compound names were used in Provençal (Isarn of the country spoke langue d’oil, or French, and the southern Clément and the like) on occasion. Noble families especially used third spoke langue d’oc (also called Provençal or Occitan). On place-name bynames, with ‘de’meaning ‘of’or ‘from’before the the north coast, the Normans spoke Norman French, although place, as in de Montfort or d’Orange. These started to become this dialect was absorbed into French by the 15th century. inheritable family names by the 14th century. Male Personal Names Common: Baudouin, Gautier, Geoffroy, Guillaume, Guy, Henri, Hugues, Jean, Pierre, Robert French:Abélard, Adhémar,Alain, Albert,Alizandre, Amélien, Amiel, André,Anselm, Archambaud, Arnaud, Aubert,Aubry, Baldwin, Barthélemy, Benet, Benoît, Bérenger, Bernard, Berthomieu, Bertrand, Chrétien, Constantin, Emmanuel, Erard, Eustace, Evre, Frédéric, Fulbert, Fulk, Gaillard, Galland, Gaston, Gaudri, Gautier, Geoffroy, Gerbert, Germain, Girard, Girars, Godefroy, Guibert, Guilhabert, Guillaume, Guillot, Henri, Hernaut, Hugues, Jacques, Jean, Julien, Loup, Maitre, Martin, Mathieu, Maurice, Michel, Olivier, Othon, Philippe, Pierre, Pons, Prades, Rainouart, Rannulf, Raymond, Renart, Renauld, Richard, Robert, Roger, Roscelin, Saire, Simon, Théodose, Tybald, Valentin, Vivien Norman: Adrian,Alexandre, Alfred, Almaric,Alured, Amaury,Ambrose, André, Antoine, Barthélémy, Baudouin, Berengar, Bernard, Bertrand, Blaise, Blondel, Bohemond, Charles, Claude, Constant, Denis, Dolfin, Drogo, Eustace, Falco, François, Fulco, Fulk, Gabriel, Gallien, Geoffrey, Georges, Gerbert, Gervase, Gilbert, Gilles, Giraud, Godfrey, Guy, Guillaume, Henri, Hubert, Hugh, Hugues, Humphrey, Isembart, Ivo, Jacques, Jean, Jerome, Jocelin, Julien, Lanfranc, Laurens, Leopold, Louis, Marc, Marin, Martin, Matthew, Milo, Nicholas, Nigel, Noel, Odo, Osbern, Philip, Raimund, Ralph, Raoul, René, Richard, Robert, Roger, Rolle, Romain, Simon, Stephen, Tancred, Thomas, Vincent, Wace, Waleran, Walter Provençal:Abit,Aimery,Albèrt, Amelh, Amelian, Andrieu,Arnault, Arnaut,Asemar, Barral, Beneset, Berenguièr, Bernart, Bertomieu, Bertran, Boé, Bonnet, Cercamon, Claud, Clément, Danyel, David, Emeric, Estold, Étienne, Fabre, Felip, Folquet, François, Gaspard, Gaston, Gaucelm, German, Girault, Gualhard, Guido, Guilhabèrt, Guilhèm, Guilhòt, Huc, Irénée, Isarn, Jasmin, Jaufré, Jaume, Jean, Jogues, Josephe, Julian, Kyot, Lop, Louis, Marcabrun, Martin, Maurice, Mèstre, Miquèl, Olivier, Oth, Oton, Paul, Pèire, Peyrot, Pierol, Pons, Pradas, Raimon, Raimond, Savario, Seguin, Simon, Toussaint, Tristan, Valentin, Vidal, Walter Female Personal Names Common:Agnes, Alice, Blanche, Eleanor, Isabeau, Isabelle, Jeanne, Marguerite, Matilda, Maude French:Agnes, Alazaïs, Alesta, Algaia, Alianore, Alice, Alicia, Alissende,Arnaude, Aude, Ava, Bartholomette, Basina, Béatrice, Bérengère, Bernadette, Bertrade, Blanche, Brune, Brunissende, Charlotte, Christine, Clotilde, Constance, Diane, Eglantine, Emersende, Ennasuitte, Ermengarde, Ermentrude, Esclarmonde, Esperte, Estelle, Fabrisse, Florence, Gabrielle, Gaillarde, Gaude, Gauzia, Gentile, Gerberge, Grazide, Guillemette, Hawise, Héloïse, Honors, Huguette, Isabeau, Isabella, Isabelle, Jacotte, Jambicque, Jeanne, Longarine, Louve, Marguerite, Marie, Marquise, Mathena, Matilda, Maura, Mengarde, Oisille, Phillipa, Raymonde, Rixende, Rousse, Serena, Stéphanie, Sybilla, Sybille, Thomassia, Vuissance Norman:Adela, Adelaide,Adelasia, Agnes, Alice, Amice, Anne, Antoinette, Anyas, Arletta, Aveline, Avis, Barbe, Berengaria, Bertha, Catherine, Charlotte, Constance, Diane, Eleanor, Elenor, Emma, Emmeline, Fleurie, Florence, Florymonde, Françoise, Geneviève, Hélène, Isabeau, Isabel, Isabella, Jacquelle, Jeanne, Jocelyn, Joyce, Katherine, Laura, Laurente, Lauretta, Leonor, Louise, Lucque, Madeleine, Margery, Marguerite, Marie, Marthe, Matilda, Maude, Melisande, Melisine, Millicent, Muriel, Oriel, Philippa, Rachel, Rosamond, Rose, Sibyl, Sibylla, Suzanne, Victoire, Yolande, Yvonne Provençal:Alasais, Alesta, Algaia, Alicia, Aliénor,Alissenda, Anhés, Arnauda, Auda, Beatriz, Berenguièira, Bernadeta, Bertomièva, Blanca, Blandina, Bruna, Brunissenda, Cassanea, Cavilia, Constancia, Dolça, Eglantina, Emersenda, Ermengarda, Ermessinda, Esclarmonda, Esperta, Estela, Estevena, Eugénie, Eva, Fabricia, Faydide, Felipa, Flamença, Floréncia, Florine, Galharda, Gauda, Gauzia, Gentila, Grazida, Griselde, Guilhemeta, Guirande, Imperia, Jacotina, Joana, Loba, Mabilia, Mamille, Margherita, Maria, Marquesina, Matena, Maura, Mengarda, Misse, Nova, Onors, Raimonda, Rixenda, Rossa, Serena, Sibilia, Sybelle, Tomassia, Torqueri, Ugueta, Vuissancia, Yolande Celtic (Gaulish) The term Celtic is used here in the modern sense, referring to those ancient tribes with Celtic language and culture. The term Celt comes originally from the Greeks, who used it to describe these (to them) foreign invaders. By the time of Caesar’s conquest of what is now France in the 1st century BC, the tribes called themselves Celts, and the Romans called them Gauls. The Celts were in fact a very mixed bunch who shared a common root language and broadly similar cultures. Apart from those in Gaul, there were two main groups of Celtic tribes: the ones who had migrated to the British mainland, and the ones who had migrated to Ireland. Their languages and names differed, and can be found in the Briton (Old Welsh) and Gaelic sections respectively. The names here are mostly from Gaul in the Ancient and Dark Male Personal Names Ages, where the tribes were heavily influenced by Rome, with some from related tribes in Roman Brittanica when Latin name forms predominated. Only personal names were used; there were no family names. A daughter would commonly be given a feminine version of her father’s name, and many of the female names here are recon.structions of that sort. Pronunciation These names can be pronounced as you would English (or Latin, if you prefer). Stress is on the first syllable. The /c/ and /g/ are hard. A final /e/ is pronounced. Common:Agedillios,Ateponius, Banui, Cottius, Criciro, Andosteni, Samais, Talius, Toutio, Vercombogius Standard:Adebugi,Adiatorix,Adnamati,Advorix, Agedillios, Agisilius, Albic, Allobroxus, Alpius, Ambaxius,Ambillus, Ambiorix, Andecamulos, Andecarius, Andegasi, Andergi, Andosteni, Annmoris, Artos, Ateano, Atepagus, Ateponius, Atesios, Atessatis, Atporix, Atrectus, Atrixtos, Aventinus, Balorix, Banui, Bellognatus, Bilicedo, Bimmos, Bodocenos, Borili, Borso, Borvonicus, Bratronos, Britomartus, Brocchus, Bussumarus, Cabiros, Cacurio, Cambus, Camerianus, Camulixus, Caractacus, Caracus, Caramantius, Carathounus, Carigo, Carix, Carugenus, Cassicius, Cassivellaunus, Catacus, Cathirix, Caticorix, Cattabus, Cattuvir, Catuenus, Catumandus, Catusius, Catuvolcus, Cauarius, Celtillus, Cenno, Cimarus, Cingetorix, Cinto, Coaeddus, Cobledulitavus, Cobnertius, Cocolitanus, Cogidubnus, Comnertus, Congonetiacus, Contesilo, Contoutos, Corbagni, Corio, Cornutos, Cotillus, Cottius, Cottro, Covertomotul, Covirius, Criciro, Cunigni, Cunobelinos, Curcagnus, Dagillus, Dagobius, Dalagni, Dattovir, Deoratus, Dercillus, Devus, Diorix, Divicatus, Dobagni, Doiros, Doninus, Donnadu, Donnus, Drutalus, Dumnorix, Dumnovellaunus, Ebicatos, Eburio, Elusconos, Endovellicus, Epatus, Epetinus, Eporedorix, Epos, Epotsorouidus, Ercaviccas, Escincos, Excingillus, Exsomnus, Frontú, Gabrus, Genetlus, Grimiggni, Iantinus, Iccauos, Iccinus, Ientius, Licnos, Litavis, Litugenius, Lugotorix, Lugurix, Macareus, Maccis, Magurius, Mando, Martalos, Martoualos, Meddugnatus, Megaravico, Melmandus, Messillus, Metilius, Moddagni, Morirex, Netacari, Nisigni, Oclicnos, Ollognus, Oppianicnos, Orgetorix, Perrius, Praesutagus, Reginius, Remicus, Rextugenos, Rittuvvecas, Sacrovir, Sagillus, Samais, Samocenus, Segovax, Senecio, Senocarus, Senovir, Sollovico, Talius, Tallutius, Tanco, Tarbunus, Tasciovanus, Tascius, Tasgetios, Tauri, Togodumnus, Toutio, Toutobocio, Toutos, Trenacatus, Tritos, Tuticanius, Ulccagni, Vallius, Vallo, Vebru, Vectimarus, Vectitos, Velagenus, Velitas, Velorius, Velugni, Vendogni, Venextos, Venicarus, Venixamus, Vennonius, Vepotalus, Vercatus, Vercassivellaunus, Vercingetorix, Vercombogius, Versignos, Verter, Vertros, Veruico, Vicixtillus, Victi, Vindedo, Viranus, Viratus, Viriacius, Virico, Virisimi, Virocantus, Vitousurix, Vlatcani, Vlatos, Vlatugni, Vocorix, Vopiscus, Vosegus, Voteporix Female Personal Names Common: Adnamu, Aduorix, Anderica, Cotu, Loucita, Mata, Nama, Sumela, Tancorix, Viccu Standard: Abrexta, Adginna, Adiania, Adiega, Admata, Adnamitu, Adnamu, Aduorix, Advorix, Aesica, Agedia, Aia, Albina, Alla, Alleticia, Allusa, Alpina, Alteurita, Andebrocirix, Anderca, Anderica, Anderina, Andoca, Annama, Arrotala, Atectorigiana, Atessatia, Atioxta, Auctiona, Audata, Aulricmara, Banna, Banona, Barita, Betudaca, Bileseton, Billia, Borissa, Boudenna, Boudicca, Boudilatis, Brocchia, Buscilla, Cabrilla, Cabura, Caburena, Caccosa, Camula, Cantexta, Carantia, Carantusa, Carata, Caretosa, Carissa, Cartimandua, Castina, Catalia, Catica, Catronia, Catta, Cattulla, Caturica, Caura, Cenna, Cenos, Centogenea, Centusmia, Cigemma, Cinia, Coblanuo, Cobnerta, Cobronia, Comatimara, Condexua, Congenetia, Corasia, Corobilla, Cottina, Cotu, Cotuconi, Cricconia, Cunacena, Cunoarda, Cunovinda, Dania, Dannumara, Danu, Deuilla, Diligenta, Diveca, Donilla, Dubna, Eliomara, Elovissa, Epilla, Eppaxta, Eppia, Eskenga, Exapia, Excinga, Excingilla, Exobna, Fimmilene, Friagabi, Genna, Genucia, Gnatia, Huctia, Iantulla, Iatta, Iccia, Ilateuta, Inderca, Isosae, Lanipendia, Leuca, Leucona, Lituccia, Litugena, Loucita, Loucitta, Maccira, Magusatia, Manduissa, Martilia, Martna, Mata, Mataura, Matina, Matonia, Mattosa, Matugena, Medlotama, Melicia, Messilia, Metilia, Moriena, Mottu, Nama, Namia, Namiola, Namu, Namuta, Nantia, Nantiorix, Nerta, Netelia, Nitiogenna, Ollia, Orbiana, Origena, Oxidubna, Paulla, Pera, Peula, Potita, Reginia, Rematia, Ressatu, Ressona, Reticiana, Ritomara, Sagila, Sama, Samaxa, Samia, Sammiola, Sattomata, Sedecennis, Segolia, Sennaucia, Severa, Sila, Suaduilla, Sucaria, Sueta, Sumela, Talavica, Talisia, Taluppa, Talussa, Tancorix, Tascilla, Taurica, Teolugnia, Teuta, Tritia, Trocina, Valagenta, Valicina, Vebrumna, Veca, Vectinia, Vellibia, Veniala, Venicia, Venisama, Venitouta, Venixama, Venna, Vennonia, Verctissa, Verica, Verodumna, Vicana, Viccu, Viccus, Victisirana, Vindauscia, Viralira, Viratia, Virciu, Viriondaga, Visurix, Vlatucia, Vocara, Vrittia, Vrogenia Tribe Names The Romans defined those barbarian tribes east of the Rhine as Germanic and those west as Celtic, but only tribes with Celtic language and culture are listed here. These tribes included the Cadurci, Carnutes, Cimbri, Mattiaci, Nemetes, Sequani, Sugambri, Teutoni, Triboci, Ubii, Vangiones, and Venelli. (Teutonic came to mean Germanic because the division was geographic, not ethnic.) German The pattern is the same as the English one: one or more personal names (two is most common) followed by a family name, for example, Sabina Stefanie Müller. Quite a few Germans go by their middle names, so she might well be called Stefanie by her friends. A man is addressed as Herr, meaning ‘mister’. An unmarried woman is addressed as Fräulein (Froy-line), and a married one as Frau (Frow). The ‘von’ before a surname means ‘from’ and may be an honorific, indicating the ruling family in a certain place - von Wurzburg, and so on. It could as easily indicate names of origin rather than title, though, since any non-noble medieval traveller from Marburg might have called himself ‘von Margurg’, and his family name could have ended up being the same as that of the nobles. Male Personal Names Pronunciation German tends to sound harsh and guttural to English ears. Some regional accents are milder and less crisp; the Bavarian and Austrian, for example. The /ch/ is a throat-clearing noise, not the hard /tch/ that starts chair. The /th/ is pronounced /t/ and the /w/ as /v/ (as is /v/ itself). The /au/ rhymes with ‘how’. The /ei/ rhymes with ‘time’ and /ie/ sounds like /ee/. Final e’s are sounded faintly, like the /uh/ sound in ‘water’. An umlaut (diaresis or double dot) atop a vowel lengthens it and makes it more nasal: /ü/ sounds like /euh/ (a cross between ‘mew’ and ‘moo’), /ö/ sounds like /oeh/, /ä/ sounds like /eah/. It affects all of a double vowel when present, rather than making it into two vowels, as it can do in English. For an older look in maps and manuscripts, you may want to replace the occasional double-s with the ‘ß’ symbol. It sounds the same, so ‘Groß’ is just ‘Gross’. Common:Alexander,Andreas, Christian, Daniel, Dominik, Felix, Franz, Friedrich, Lukas, Markus, Matthias, Maximilian, Michael, Philipp, Rudolf, Sebastian, Stefan, Thomas, Tobias, Wilhelm Standard:Adalbert, Adam, Adolf, Alberich, Albrecht, Alexander,Alfons, Alfred, Andreas, Anton,Antonius, Armin,Arndt, Arne, Arno, Arnold, Arthur,Artur,August,Augustin,Aurel, Axel, Balduin, Balthasar, Baptist, Bardolph, Barend, Barthel, Bartholomäus, Benedikt, Benjamin, Benno, Berend, Bernd, Bernhard, Berni, Bertel, Boris, Brandt, Bruno, Burkhard, Carl, Cäsar, Christian, Christoph, Claus, Clemens, Cölestin, Conrad, Constantin, Crispus, Curt, Daniel, David, Dennis, Derek, Dietbold, Dieter, Dietfried, Dietmar, Dietrich, Dionys, Dirk, Ditmar, Dominik, Ebbe, Eber, Eberhard, Ebert, Eckbert, Eduard, Ehrenfried, Elert, Elias, Emanuel, Emerich, Emil, Engelbert, Erdmann, Erdmut, Eric, Erich, Erik, Ernest, Ernst, Erwin, Eugen, Euwald, Faber, Fastred, Felix, Ferdinand, Florenz, Florian, Frank, Franke, Franz, Friedemann, Friedhelm, Friedl, Friedrich, Fritz, Gaufrid, Gebhard, Georg, Gerd, Gereon, Gerhard, Gerhart, Gerlach, Gerold, Gervas, Gilbert, Gottfried, Gotthilf, Gotthold, Gottlieb, Götz, Gregor, Günter, Günther, Gustav, Hannibal, Hans, Hansel, Harald, Harry, Hartmut, Hartwin, Heine, Heinrich, Heinz, Hektor, Helfrid, Helmut, Helmuth, Herbert, Hermann, Herschel, Hieronymus, Hildebrand, Horst, Hubert, Ignaz, Ingo, Ira, Isaak, Jakob, Jan, Jens, Jeremias, Jeroen, Joachim, Johann, Johannes, Jonas, Jörg, Josua, Juergen, Julian, Julius, Jürgen, Justin, Kai, Karl, Karl-Heinz, Karl-Uwe, Karlheinz, Karlmann, Karol, Kaspar, Kay, Kevin, Klaus, Konrad, Konstantin, Kristian, Kurt, Lambert, Lamprecht, Landbert, Lars, Lazarus, Leberecht, Lenz, Leo, Leon, Leonard, Leopold, Lorenz, Lothar, Lucas, Ludovic, Ludwig, Luitgard, Luitpold, Lukas, Luther, Lutz, Maik, Manfred, Manfried, Marcel, Marco, Mario, Mark, Markus, Martin, Mathias, Matthäus, Matthias, Max, Maximilian, Michael, Mike, Moritz, Niklas, Nikolaus, Oliver, Oskar, Oswald, Otmar, Otto, Ottomar, Patrick, Paul, Peter, Philipp, Pieter, Poldi, Raimund, Ralf, Ralph, Reinald, Reinecke, Reinhold, Reinke, Reinwald, René, Richard, Robert, Roderich, Roland, Rolf, Rudi, Rüdiger, Rudolf, Ruprecht, Samuel, Sasha, Sebastian, Seigmund, Siegmund, Sigismund, Silvan, Silvester, Simon, Soeren, Stefan, Steffen, Stephan, Stoffel, Sven, Swen, Thaddeus, Theo, Theobold, Theodor, Thomas, Thorsten, Till, Tim, Tobias, Tom, Torsten, Udo, Ulrich, Utz, Uwe, Valentin, Veit, Victor, Vincenz, Waldemar, Walter, Walther,Werner,Wieland, Wilhelm, Willi, Willibald, Willy, Wolfgang, Wülfing Female Personal Names Common:Anita,Anna, Christine, Frida, Julia, Karoline, Katharina, Kathrin, Laura, Lillian, Lisa, Marie, Melanie, Mina, Nadine, Nicole, Sabine, Sarah, Sophie, Stefanie Standard:Adele,Adelheid, Adelina, Adeltraud, Agathe,Agnes, Aleida, Alena,Alexandra,Alexia, Alice,Alix, Amalie,Amelia,Andrea, Angelika, Anita, Anja, Anke, Anna, Annalisa, Anne, Anneliese, Annett,Augusta, Barbara, Beatrix, Berta, Bertha, Betti, Bettina, Birgit, Brigitte, Carola, Caroline, Charlotte, Christiane, Christin, Christina, Christine, Clara, Clarissa, Claudia, Clothilda, Cordula, Corona, Cosima, Dagmar, Daniela, Diana, Dorchen, Doreen, Dorothea, Edith, Eleonore, Elfriede, Elisabeth, Elise, Elke, Ella, Elsbeth, Else, Elvire, Emilie, Emma, Erika, Ermentrude, Erna, Ernestine, Eva, Felicie, Franziska, Franziske, Frida, Frieda, Friedel, Friederike, Gabriele, Gabriella, Gerda, Gerde, Gerhaus, Gertrud, Gertrude, Gisa, Gisela, Greta, Gretchen, Grete, Gretl, Grisel, Griseldis, Hana, Hanne, Hanneli, Hedwig, Heidi, Heike, Heinrike, Helene, Helga, Hella, Helma, Helmine, Henriette, Hermine, Herta, Hertha, Hildegard, Hortensia, Hulda, Ida, Ilse, Ines, Inge, Ingeborg, Ingrid, Irma, Irmgard, Isabelle, Jana, Janina, Janna, Jennifer, Jessica, Jessika, Johanna, Josepha, Judith, Juli, Julia, Juliane, Julie, Jutta, Jutte, Kaia, Karin, Karla, Karlotte, Karolin, Karoline, Käte, Katharina, Katharine, Käthe, Katherina, Kathrin, Katja, Katrin, Kerstin, Kirsten, Klara, Klarissa, Klaudia, Klementine, Konstanze, Kristiana, Kristin, Kristina, Kunigunde, Laura, Lea, Lena, Lene, Leni, Lenore, Leona, Lieselotte, Liesl, Lilli, Lillian, Lisa, Lise, Liselotte, Lola, Loletta, Lotte, Lottelore, Louise, Lucie, Ludmilla, Ludovica, Luise, Luzi, Magdalene, Mandy, Manuela, Margarete, Margarethe, Margot, Maria, Marie, Marina, Marlene, Marta, Martha, Marthe, Martina, Matilde, Melanie, Meta, Michelle, Mina, Minne, Mitzi, Monika, Nadine, Nadja, Natascha, Nicole, Octavia, Olympie, Ottilie, Pauline, Petra, Phillipine, Rahel, Rebekka, Regine, Renata, Resi, Rosa, Ruth, Sabina, Sabine, Sabrina, Salome, Sandra, Sara, Sarah, Sibylle, Silke, Simone, Sophia, Sophie, Stefanie, Steffi, Stephanie, Susann, Susanne, Tabea, Tanja, Theda, Therese, Traudel, Tresa, Trudeliese, Trudi, Trudl, Ulrike, Ursi, Ursula, Urzsula, Uta, Ute, Valentina, Valerie, Vanessa, Veronike, Victoria, Virginia, Waltraud, Wilhelmina, Yvonne, Zella, Zissi Family Names Common: Bauer, Becker, Fischer, Hoffmann, Klein, Koch, Meyer, Müller, Neumann, Richter, Schäfer, Schmidt, Schmitz, Schneider, Schröder, Schulz, Schwarz, Wagner, Weber, Wolf Standard: Abels, Achsen, Adler,Affler, Alsberg, Altaner, Altmaier, Altmayer,Altringer,Amann, Arendt, Arenz, Arndt, Arweiler, Aschenbach, Axmann, Baader, Bach, Bacht, Backendorf, Bäcker, Baecker, Barth, Barthelmes, Bartzen, Barz, Basler, Bauer, Bauler, Bäumer, Baur, Bayerlein, Bechold, Bechstein, Beck, Becker, Beckmann, Behm, Bekker, Berg, Berger, Bergmann, Bergmüller, Bernstein, Berweiler, Bierhoff, Billig, Bischoff, Bloch, Blum, Bock, Bode, Böhmer, Bollendorf, Bonner, Borens, Bothe, Bott, Braasch, Brackmann, Brand, Braun, Braune, Brecht, Breiling, Breit, Breitung, Bremer, Brendel, Breuer, Brinkmann, Bruck, Brückner, Brünnet, Bund, Bur, Busch, Buse, Casel, Caspari, Clahsen, Clär, Corssen, Creuzfeldt, Daffner, Dalberg, Damaske, Daum, Dehmel, Deitert, Denhart, Denner, Denzer, Derringer, Dewald, Diederich, Diels, Diendorf, Dietrich, Dietz, Dittmar, Dixen, Döbert, Donner, Dorfmüller, Dorn, Dreschler, Drexel, Drossen, Duhr, Dünker, Düren, Ecker, Eckerman, Ehle, Ehrhard, Ehrle, Eichendorf, Eisenbarth, Eisner, Elsen, Emmerich, Engler, Enke, Erhardt, Ermert, Ernst, Ertl, Esch, Essig, Faber, Fass, Faust, Feiler, Feiten, Feld, Felder, Ferber, Ferger, Feynman, Fisch, Fischer, Flicke, Fogel, Föhr, Folz, Franke, Frasch, Frechen, Freund, Freytag, Friedel, Friedlander, Friedmann, Friedrich, Fritzen, Froebel, Frölich, Fuchs, Fürst, Furtwängler, Gäbges, Gaebler, Ganz, Garlesch, Gärtner, Gebert, Gehrig, Geisen, Gellert, Gelzer, Gergen, Gerhardt, Gerike, Geyler, Glaber, Göbert, Gödert, Goettinger, Göhlen, Görgen, Graff, Graus, Grell, Griesbach, Gross, Grossman, Groth, Grubel, Gruber, Grünen, Grünwald, Gruse, Grützmüller, Haase, Haber, Haessler, Haffner, Hafner, Hagen, Häger, Hahn, Halder, Hammerich, Hardt, Hartmann, Hasselberg, Haubert, Hauch, Haupt, Hauptmann, Hauser, Hechler, Hecht, Heimer, Heimpel, Heineman, Heinen, Heinkel, Heinrich, Heinz, Helbach, Helfen, Hellner, Hempel, Henning, Herber, Herbert, Herget, Herold, Herrmann, Herzl, Herzog, Heusler, Hoch, Hockler, Hoen, Hoff, Hoffman, Holtzmann, Horsch, Huber, Hübner, Huschens, Hütter, Immelmann, Irmisch, Irsch, Jäger, Jakobi, Jank, Jegen, Jüncker, Jung, Jungelen, Jungmann, Kaestel, Kahl, Kahn, Kaiser, Kamp, Kanzler, Keiser, Keitel, Keller, Kemner, Kessler, Kiefer, Kien, Kierkegaard, Kinkel, Kirchhoff, Kirsch, Klas, Klassen, Klaus, Klein, Kleine, Kleinert, Klemke, Klotten, Kneip, Knoll, Koch, Koehler, Koenig, Köhler, Kohn, Kolb, Kollman, Kolz, König, Koppe, Kordel, Kostner, Kraatz, Krabbe, Kraemer, Krämer, Kranz, Krause, Krautheimer, Krebs, Kreischen, Krenckel, Kreutzer, Krieger, Krohn, Kröschel, Krueger, Krüger, Kruse, Kuhn, Kuntz, Lagemann, Lahr, Lamprecht, Lang, Lange, Langer, Lauer, Lector, Lehman, Leiber, Leitner, Lenz, Lesker, Licht, Liebermann, Linn, Lonsdorfer, Lörscher, Löwe, Lustgarten, Lutz, Maas, Mader, Mahler, Maier, Mann, Mathi, Mayer, Mehling, Meier, Meinecke, Meisner, Mendel, Mendelsohn, Mergen, Metterling, Metzler, Meyer, Millen, Miller, Moeller, Mohl, Möhler, Mohr, Mohrbach, Molder, Möller, Molz, Mönch, Morbach, Mosbauer, Moseler, Mueller, Mülbers, Müller, Muth, Muthig, Nagel, Nauert, Neihs, Nernst, Neuerburg, Neukirch, Neumann, Niemann, Nimtz, Nitze, Noever, Nuyen, Oberkirch, Obermeyer, Oligschläger, Orth, Oster, Ostermaier, Ostwald, Otten, Otto, Palzer, Papst, Pauli, Pelzer, Peters, Pfaff, Pfeiffer, Pfnör, Philipps, Picht, Pinger, Pitsch, Pletz, Plücker, Pohl, Porten, Prandtl, Preis, Preuss, Prinz, Probst, Quirin, Radermacher, Ratte, Rau, Reber, Regers, Reh, Rehberg, Reicher, Reichert, Reinhard, Reinhardt, Reinke, Reiss, Reiter, Rettweiler, Reuter, Richter, Richtmann, Riedel, Riefenstahl, Rieger, Ritter, Röder, Rohr, Rosen, Rosenberg, Rosenkranz, Rosskopf, Rössler, Roth, Rupp, Rützel, Sabel, Saebel, Sander, Sauer, Schaar, Schaefer, Schäfer, Schawe, Scheer, Schenk, Schiff, Schiller, Schilling, Schimmel, Schlöder, Schmid, Schmidt, Schmitt, Schmitz, Schneider, Schnell, Scholl, Scholz, Schönberger, Schramm, Schreiber, Schröder, Schroeder, Schubert, Schuhmacher, Schuler, Schultz, Schumann, Schuster, Schütz, Schwartz, Schwartzer, Schwarz, Schwarzkopf, Schweissthal, Seher, Seidel, Siebert, Siehr, Sievert, Singer, Smidt, Smitt, Sonnenberg, Sonntag, Spaar, Speicher, Sperl, Sprecher, Springer, Stahlberg, Steffens, Stein, Steinbach, Steinberger, Stock, Stoffel, Stoltz, Strauss, Stürmer, Tauscher, Teichmann, Teischer, Ternes, Teschendorff, Teuer, Thaner, Theile, Theissen, Theobald, Thiel, Thielen, Thiesen, Thimmel, Thomaser, Thoms, Thönes, Thörnich, Thull, Tiegelkamp, Tillmann, Tischler, Tömmel, Törnich, Traultmann, Trautvetter, Trenz, Trierweiler, Triesch, Trümper,Tümmel, Uhlirz, Uiberall, Umbach, Unruh, Velgart, Vogt, Vollner, Wagener, Wagner, Wahner, Wald, Wälder, Walker, Walter, Waltermann, Walther, Walthier, Walz, Warg, Warnau, Waschbusch, Wasser, Wassermann, Wassmuth, Weber, Wehner, Weides, Weiland, Weiler, Weimer, Weins, Weirich, Weishoff, Weiss, Welter, Werner, Weyhofen, Wiemers, Wiens, Willems, Winter, Winterich, Wirschim, Wirth, Wirtz, Wissmann, Witte, Wittek, Wohler, Wolf, Wolff, Wollenhaupt, Würtz, Zahn, Zeigen, Zeiss, Zenner, Ziess, Zimmer, Zimmerman, Zock, Zunker Medieval German Prior to the 11th century in Germany, a personal name alone would have been used, with a byname, if necessary. Personal names derive from Germanic and biblical sources, and there was some Slavic influence as well. A typical selection of names has Male Personal Names been provided. There were many variants and pet forms of each name; a few popular ones are included (Jekel for Jacob, Sander for Alexander, and so on). Common: Friedrich, Georg, Heinrich, Hermann, Johannes, Konrad, Michael, Nikolaus, Peter, Ulrich Standard:Adam,Albert,Albrecht, Andreas, Arnold, Balthasar, Bartusch, Berchtold, Bernhard, Bertold, Bertolf, Bruno, Burgolt, Caspar, Christoff, Clement, Conrad, David, Dietrich, Eberhard, Francze, Frederich, Friderich, Friedrich, Fritsche, Gabriel, Gebehart, Georg, Gerhard, Gisko, Gottfrid, Gregor, Günczel, Gunther, Hannes, Hans, Hansel, Heinczel, Heinke, Heinrich, Helwig, Hempel, Hentschel, Herbord, Hermann, Hertwig, Jacob, Jekel, Johannes, Jorge, Jost, Jurgen, Konrad, Lamprecht, Lorencz, Ludwig, Luther, Lüthold, Lütke, Manfred, Marcus, Martin, Mathis, Michael, Nikolaus, Örtel, Ortolf, Oswald, Otto, Paul, Peczold, Peter, Reinfrid, Reinhard, Rüdel, Rüdger, Rudolf, Ruprecht, Sander, Siegfrid, Sigmund, Steffan, Symon, Thomas, Till, Tristram, Ulrich, Volkmar, Walther, Wenczel, Wernher, Winand, Wiprecht, Wolf, Wolfgang, Wolfhart, Wolfram Female Personal Names Common:Adelheid, Agnes, Anna, Barbara, Christine, Elisabeth, Gerhaus, Katharina, Kunigunde, Margarete Standard:Adelheid, Agathe, Agnes, Alke, Anna,Apollonia, Aythe, Barbara, Beate, Benedicta, Bertha, Bertrude, Cecilia, Christine, Clare, Czylle, Demut, Dorothye, Elisabeth, Elze, Enede, Engeltrude, Enneleyn, Ermegard, Eufemia, Femeke, Gerhaus, Gerke, Gertrude, Gerusch, Grite, Hedwig, Helena, Herburg, Herlinde, Hezke, Hilde, Hildeberg, Hildegund, Hilusch, Ilse, Irmel, Irmeltrud, Jutte, Katharina, Katusch, Kethe, Kirstyn, Kunigunde, Künne, Lena, Libeste, Libusch, Liphilt, Lucie, Lusche, Magdalena, Maneth, Margarete, Marie, Marusch, Mechtilde, Mecze, Merlyn, Müte, Neleke, Osanna, Osterhild, Otilge, Ottilie, Phye, Sabine, Salmey, Sanne, Sophie, Ursula, Ute, Veronica, Ysentrude Germanic The term Germanic is used here in its modern sense of those DarkAges tribes with Germanic language and culture: Goths, Franks, and the like. They sacked Rome, but later created the Holy Roman Empire: Charlemagne (Great Kerl) was a Frankish king. Before they invaded Rome they lived in the area of modern-day Netherlands, Belgium, and Germany. (The northwest coast was the abode of Saxons et alia.) The Germanic tribes had no family names. As with their close relations the Anglo-Saxons, personal names were usually formed from a pair of stock vocabulary elements; meanings were mostly ignored. Unlike theAnglo-Saxons, single-element names (about 20% of the whole) had the same status as the rest. A few rare three-element names existed. Some elements were exclusively male or female, first or last, but many could be either. Letters were often added, sometimes lost, between the elements to smooth the name’s sound: Brunihild for Brunhild, Frideric for Fridric, Gerard for Gerhard, Merofled for Merfled, Odobert for Odbert. Single-element Names Spelling and pronunciation were not uniform, and changed with time and place. The spellings here are from about the 10th century, but some variants are included. Before the 8th century, Thiad was spelled Theod; to the east it could be spelled Deud, Theut, and so on. After the 10th century, wald and bald became wold and bold; after the 11th, woud and boud. In the 11th century, Frid and lind became Fred and lend. The children of a family would often have names incorporating the same element, or use elements from both parents. Adalbald and his wife Sighild might have two sons, Adalric and Adalwulf, and a daughter, Sigibald, for instance. Pronunciation Stress is on the first syllable. The /j/ is a /y/ sound. The vowels have short and long (stressed) forms. The /a/ is as in ‘uh’ or ‘art’, and /e/ as in ‘bed’ or ‘lake’. The /i/ is as in ‘bit’ or ‘bead’, the /o/ as in ‘pod’ or ‘pour’, the /u/ as in ‘bull’ or ‘moon’. If you want older-sounding Germanic names, add an ‘h’ before elements starting with an ‘r’ (so Rod becomes Hrod, for instance), and strongly aspirate all h’s. For single-element names, use first elements from the two-element lists, either alone or with a diminutive ending: ‘-la’, ‘-linus’, ‘-tet’; ‘.a’or ‘-za’(feminine), ‘-o’or ‘-zo’(masculine). Pet names of this form, some altered a bit further, were reasonably common: Abbo, Adda, Adzo, Arop, Atto, Batto, Bekko, Berta, Berto, Bippo, Boso, Dido, Dodo, Dozo, Ello, Faffo, Gibbo, Gyso, Ringo, Scatto, Siggo, Swifo, Tatto, Wiszo. Male Two-element Names Choose two non-rhyming elements to form a name, adding a letter between the elements if it seems appropriate. These selections are typical, not exhaustive. First Common:Adal,Ase, Eber, Folc, Ger, Her, Liud, Od, Ragin, Rud, Sig, Thiad First:Adal, Adlar,Ag, Agil, Agis, Ald,Am, Amal, And, Angil, Arn, Asc,Ase, Bad, Bald, Ban, Bau, Bern, Bert, Bever, Bili, Blank, Blic, Blid, Boso, Brord, Brun, Burg, Child, Chlod, Crode, Cuni, Dag, Dank, Degen, Eber, Eis, Ellen, Eo, Er, Erken, Ernst, Falko, Fara, Fasta, Folc, Ford, Fram, Frank, Frid, Fries, Fro, Furma, Gard, Gauta, Geb, Gel, Geld, Ger, Gisel, God, Grim, Gund, Hade, Haga, Hal, Hard, Heil, Heim, Helm, Her, Hesa, Hild, Hug, Hun, Hus, Idi, Ing, Irmin, Isan, Iv, Karl, Klar, Knut, Kraft, Land, Liaf, Liud, Madal, Magin, Man, Mar, Mark, Maura, Mer, Mud, Nand, Nath, Nid, Nodi, Nord, Od, Raban, Rad, Ragin, Ramn, Rand, Ric, Ripja, Rod, Rud, Sal, Sarva, Sax, Scir, Sig, Snel, Swind, Theud, Thiad, Thing, Tras, Trud, Un, Vind, Vola, Wacchar, Wal, Wald, Was, Wendil, Wer, Wich, Widu, Wil, Win, Wis, Wive, Wulf, Wun Second Common: bald, bert, frid, ger, hard, her, ric, wald, win, wulf Second: bad, bald, band, bau, bern, bert, bodo, bord, boso, brand, branda, brord, brun, dad, dag, eber, frid, gard, geld, ger, gisel, god, grim, hade, hard, helm, her, ing, kin, laic, land, lin, linus, loga, man, mar, mer, mud, mund, nath, nodi, raban, rad, ragin, ric, rochan, scalc, sind, stan, tet, thing, wacchar, wal, wald, ward, wer, wich, win, wulf, zo Female Two-element Names Choose two non-rhyming elements to form a name, adding a letter between the elements if it seems appropriate. These selections are typical, not exhaustive. Females could also make use of male second elements by adding ‘-a’ to them to make, for instance, -berta or .frida from -bert or -frid. Common:Adal, Alb,Ase, Ger, Hild, Irmin, Liud, Magin, Ragin, Ric, Sig, Thiad First:Adal, Adlar,Ag,Agil, Agis,Alb, Ald,Am, Amal, And, Angil,Ase, Bad, Ban, Bau, Bern, Bert, Bever, Bili, Blank, Blic, Blid, Boso, Brod, Brun, Burg, Child, Chlod, Crode, Dag, Dank, Degen, Eber, Eis, Ellen, Eo, Er, Erken, Ernst, Falko, Fara, Fasta, Folc, Ford, Fram, Frank, Frid, Fries, Fro, Furma, Gard, Gauta, Geb, Gel, Geld, Ger, Gisel, God, Grim, Hade, Haga, Hal, Hard, Heil, Heim, Helm, Her, Hesa, Hild, Huld, Hus, Id, Idi, Ing, Irmin, Iv, Karl, Klar, Knut, Kraft, Liud, Madal, Magin, Man, Mar, Mark, Maura, Mer, Mud, Nand, Nath, Nid, Nodi, Nord, Od, Raban, Ragin, Rand, Ric, Ripja, Rud, Sal, Sarva, Scir, Sig, Snel, Swind, Theud, Thiad, Thing, Tras, Trud, Vind, Vola, Wacchar, Wal, Was, Wendil, Wer, Wich, Widu, Wil, Wis, Wive, Wulf, Wun Second Common: burg, gard, hild, lind, mund, rad, swind, trud, wich, wive Second: bald, bern, brun, burg, child, fled, gard, geb, gisel, heid, hild, liaf, lin, lind, loga, mud, mund, rad, swind, tet, trud, wal, wer, wich, win, wive, za Tribe Names The Romans defined those barbarian tribes east of the Rhine as Germanic and those west as Gauls (modern Celtic), but only tribes with Germanic language and culture are listed here. These tribes included the Alemanni, Burgundii, Chatti (Bastarnae, Batavi), Chauci, Cherusci, Franconi, Gepidae, Gothi (Ostrogothi, Visigothi), Harudes, Norici, Suebi (Hermundri, Langobardi, Marcomanni, Quadi), Tulingi, and Vandali. After the barbarians had invaded Rome in the 4th century, they consolidated a little, with some major tribes absorbing others and so on. The names at this stage are usually given as Allemanni, Burgundians, Franks, Gepidae, Goths (Ostrogoths, Visigoths), Heruli, Lombards, Thuringians, Vandals, and a little later, Bavarians. Charlemagne was crowned Emperor in 800 AD, when the Franks (briefly) controlled what is now France, Italy, and much of Germany and Spain. Gypsy The Gypsies, as they are known in English-speaking countries, and (since the 18th century) caravans. Gypsies make a colourful call themselves the Roma or Romani (Romany) people. They addition to any campaign (even a science fiction milieu, since were initially nomads who migrated from northern India in the their bands may well ply the spaceways of the future and lighten 9th century and later. They were based in east Europe and Asia pockets as they go). by the Middle Ages, have since spread to much of the world, and now number anywhere from two to nine million. Both reviled Many Gypsies speak their own Romany language, although and romanticised, they are self-professed liars, thieves, beggars, dialects vary widely and borrow much from local tongues. They and confidence tricksters, famous for their vivid costumes and have their own names, but freely adopt those of the countries customs, pride, melodrama, music, horse-trading, fortune-telling, where they live or travel, with a preference for the old-fashioned and picturesque. In the past, some had a private Romany name Pronunciation and a public name for use outside their community (as well as a Romany sounds (and spellings) vary a lot with dialect; these secret name, never spoken). Family names are mostly from their notes are mostly for Vlax Romani, but the names are a mixture. trades (Smith, Tinker, and so on in various tongues), and many The last syllable is stressed unless an accent indicates were originally specific to particular parts of the world. The otherwise. The /j/ is pronounced the same as /y/, and /dj/ names of Gypsy tribes can be used as family names at a pinch. sounds like a cross between /j/ and /dy/. The /g/ is hard, and the Names here are representative of those from modern Europe: fill /c/ closer to /ts/. The /a/ sounds like that in ‘art’. The /i/ is an / them out with likely names from the surroundings (Harry or ee/ sound, and /o/ and /u/ are also long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ Harriet in England and so on). respectively. The /e/ can sound like the /a/ sound in ‘hail’, or the /e/ in ‘men’. The /ai/ rhymes with ‘eye’ and the /ei/ with ‘way’. The pattern follows local mores, usually the same as the English one: one or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Ingo Zigair. Male Personal Names Common: Chuvula, Fero, Frinkelo, Ilika, Ingo, Miya, Terkari, Vaya, Yakali, Yerko Standard:Aladar,Alexandre, Ambrose, Ambrosius, Andrash, Andreas, Andreu, Andrew,Andries, Andrzej, Anselo, Anthon, Anthonius, Antoni, Arben, Artani, Aziz, Badu, Bakro, Balo, Baptiste, Barthélemy, Bartholomeus, Baul, Bavol, Baxtalo, Behjet, Beno, Bera, Bersh, Besnik, Beval, Bexhet, Bidshika, Boboko, Boiko, Boldor, Boshengro, Branko, Brishen, Butsulo, Cam, Cappi, Caspar, Chaine, Chal, Chalie, Chalin, Chavula, Chik, Chuvula, Coica, Comon, Corin, Culvato, Czerda, Danior, Danor, David, Dederich, Derrick, Dilaver, Dinga, Django, Djivan, Djordji, Dodo, Dukker, Duntshi, Durriken, Eldred, Emaus, Emilian, Ernst, Felippo, Ferenc, Ferka, Fero, Fonso, Franciscus, Frinkelo, Gagino, Garridan, George, Georgo, Gilderoy, Gimi, Gitanillo, Grantsha, Grofo, Guaril, Guibran, Gunada, Gunari, Gyorgy, Hamelen, Hanzi, Harman, Honko, Hoval, Ilika, Inga, Ingo, Ion, Jacobo, Jaime, Jal, Janfri, Jasper, Javert, Jean, Jehan, Jivin, Joannes, Johan, Johannes, John, Johnne, Joji, Josef, Juan, Kako, Kalderasha, Kalia, Ker, Kolev, Koloro, Kore, Koscis, Krenar, Lacabro, Ladislaus, Laetshi, Latco, Lel, Lennor, Lensar, Loiza, Luca, Luciano, Ludwig, Luluvo, Maca, Manciu, Mander, Marcel, Marcelle, Mario, Marko, Martin, Martino, Masaine, Melalo, Merikano, Mertshak, Michael, Michel, Michele, Michell, Miguel, Mihai, Mihali, Milosh, Miquiel, Mircea, Mitsho, Miya, Mutshoro, Nanosh, Nicolae, Nicolao, Nicolaus, Nicu, Ninga, Nonke, Nonoka, Notarka, Nuzi, Oaste, Othi, Oti, Pali, Palko, Palque, Panch, Pani, Panuel, Pardalien, Pauli, Paulo, Petrus, Petsha, Philip, Philippe, Pierre, Piramus, Pitivo, Pitti, Plamen, Popoy, Pulika, Punka, Putzina, Racki, Rajko, Rambo, Romano, Rumen, Rye, Saip, Shaip, Shandor, Shkelgim, Silvanus, Simionce, Sindel, Stefan, Stephen, Steve, Stevo, Sylvester, Talpa, Tamás, Tas, Tawno, Tem, Terkari, Thomas, Tibo, Tina, Tobar, Tomás, Troka, Tshilaba, Tshompi, Tshurka, Tshurkina, Tshurkurka, Tsinoro, Vakako, Vandlo, Vanyev, Vaya, Vedel, Vesh, Veshengo, Vosho, Walther, Wasili, Wen, Wesh, Wilhelm, Yakali, Yanko, Yanoro, Yayal, Yerko, Yishwan, Yiswan, Yojo, Yokka, Yoska, Zindel, Zindelo, Zurka Female Personal Names Common: Dunicha, Malilini, Oraga, Orka, Rosina, Savina, Saviya, Tekla, Tereina, Viollca Standard:Amberline, Anelka,Anselina,Antoinette, Anuaka,Armanka, Babina, Bayana, Belka, Bena, Bica, Bilya, Bina, Binuca, Birka, Bisno, Bizuca, Bota, Botana, Boti, Boyala, Bresa, Briya, Buna, Burgulya, Camba, Camillia, Carmen, Carolina, Cernyavka, Chavi, Cilyana, Cilyanka, Cini, Cora, Cura, Dana, Danira, Darka, Darklis, Dena, Diamanta, Diduka, Dika, Dilinka, Dina, Djidjo, Domka, Donka, Donya, Dotia, Draga, Drina, Dritta, Duda, Dudarka, Dulca, Dundya, Dunicha, Dyana, Dyolbana, Dyombala, Dyula, Elena, Emilia, Erçilla, Esmeralda, Everilda, Faimette, Feastra, Fifika, Florica, Gafa, Gafica, Gaftona, Gana, Gemile, Gitana, Golay, Grinza, Guda, Ina, Jessenia, Jeta, Jofranka, Kali, Kapica, Kata, Katarina, Kati, Keja, Keza, Kica, Kokana, Kolombina, Krizma, Krizmarica, Kruca, Kumbriya, Kuna, Lala, Lavinia, Liliana, Lina, Liza, Loli, Louzsa, Loyzi, Loza, Ludu, Luga, Lukreciya, Lula, Luludi, Luludja, Luminitsa, Luna, Luska, Lutka, Luza, Lyalya, Lyanka, Lyuba, Lyubitshka, Lyuka, Madoka, Mairenni, Mala, Malaska, Malika, Malilini, Malyoxa, Mandica, Manevra, Mara, Marca, Mardyola, Marga, Margayka, Margoska, Marilis, Marona, Maruca, Marulya, Matora, Matryona, Matuska, Mentanya, Meridiana, Meriya, Mica, Mikaila, Mileva, Mimi, Mina, Mirella, Miyula, Mizelli, Morana, Mozol, Mugulya, Murzatka, Muyara, Nadja, Nataliya, Ola, Oraga, Orka, Papin, Papina, Paprika, Papus, Papusza, Paralya, Parastiva, Patrina, Pavia, Pavlena, Peneli, Peperuga, Persi, Persuda, Pesha, Pevuna, Phabay, Pika, Pita, Pitoc, Piyada, Pucuranka, Puna, Pupi, Putsha, Putya, Rayka, Roseriya, Rosina, Rufa, Rupa, Rupinka, Rupla, Ruza, Sabina, Sana, Saveta, Savina, Saviya, Senuca, Seryadya, Seyica, Shofranka, Sidi, Sima, Simza, Sizma, Sofa, Solomiya, Sonya, Stanka, Staya, Stura, Syeira, Talaitha, Taliya, Tatoya, Tauna, Tawnie, Tekla, Tereina, Terenka, Tereza, Terka, Terom, Teza, Tinka, Tshaya, Tshilaba, Tsura, Tsuritsa, Vadoma, Valentina, Vandya, Vena, Vermilia, Veryalda, Viollca, Volya, Volyana, Voronka, Voronsana, Vorza, Vorzana, Vorzanka, Vota, Xilya, Xilyka, Yana, Yela,Yelena, Yeva, Yolanda, Yordana, Yoza, Yula, Yulyca, Zaga, Zamba, Zambila, Zamfira, Zana, Zanda, Zizya, Zofi, Zofinya, Zolfina, Zorpina, Zoska, Zurama, Zuza, Zuzana, Zuzi, Zuzulya Family Names Common: Carvalho, Chiklo, Lazlo, Petulengro, Polgár, Smith,Tangevec, Tinka, Zigair Standard:Alves, Amaya, Anako, Andree, Babtista, Baillie, Bailzow, Bakos, Balasz, Balliol, Baptista, Bath, Beige, Berkes, Betzenia, Bihari, Bimbo, Boromi, Borzlam, Boswell, Buckland, Bunkó, Camomesero, Carvalho, Chiklo, Choron, Colomb, Cooper, Costa, Csiffra, de Triana, Demeter, Doe, Donea, Evan, Fa, Faa, Faher, Faw, Fawe, Femine, Fenwick, Ferreira, Figueiredo, Finco, Fingo, Finnick, Galubavich, Gnougy, Gordon, Gozzel, Gry, Hatseygow, Hearne, Herne, Jaks, Kaslov, Kettler, Kirpatsh, Kwiek, la Grave, la Kore, Lalow, Lawlowr, Lazarovich, Lazlo, Lee, Lindsay, Lopes, Lovell, Luluvo, Marshall, Matskalla, Maximoff, Meche, Mitrovich, Moreul, Nany, Neyn, Nyári, Pataloeshti, Pereira, Petulengro, Polgár, Rasz, Rigó, Robertson, Roland, Ross, Sáray, Smith, Stankovich, Stanley, Stirio, Tangevec, Tinka, Tinker, Torquato, Torres, Voicu, Wanko, Wanne, Wells, Winman, Wood, Yayal, Yera, Yevanovich, Yorstoun, Zetterling, Zigair Tribe Names Argintari,Ashkali, Atchefalaya, Aurari, Banjara, Bashalde, Belcher, Beticos, Beyash, Bijeli, Blidari, Bosha, Calé, Chergari, Chingianes, Chivute, Churara, Ciganos, Costorari, Cutitari, Dangerfield, Djambas, Dom, Domari, Domba, Erlide, Erlije, Ferari, Gabori, Gelderari, Gitans, Grastari, Helebi, Herari, Hungaros, Jenische, Kabudji, Kalderasa, Kalderash, Kale, Kantarai, Karaci, Kirpachi, Kobzari, Kopanari, Kotorara, Kovachi, Kurbat, Laieshi, Lalleri, Lautari, Lingurari, Lom, Lomari, Lombardi, Lovara, Lowari, Lowbey, Ludar, Ludari, Luli, Luri, Machvaya, Mango, Manouche, Manouches, Mechkari, Mestere-Lacatuchi, Nawar, Netotsi, Nuri, Omstreifere, Padureani, Piemontesi, Potcovari, Quinquilleros, Quinquis, Reizigers, Resande, Rlia, Rom, Romanichal, Romnichal, Romnichel, Romungro, Rudari, Rudars, Salahori, Sfirnari, Shoshoraya, Sinti, Sitari, Spoitoresele, Tinker, Ursari, Vatrashi, Xoraxai, Xoraxane, Yeniches, Yevkos, Zingaros, Zlatari, Zott Titles When in conversation with outsiders, Gypsy leaders and others are happy to ennoble themselves to duke, count, or lord (use whatever local terms apply), but there are no real equivalents. Tribes consist of a number of bands of from ten to a few hundred households. The head of an extended family is the phuro (female, phuri). The chieftan of a band, elected for life from its most eminent families, is sometimes called the rom baro (big man); East European terms for chieftan used locally include bulibasha, ataman, vaida, voivode. A council of elders helps him govern; the senior woman in the band, the phuri dai, also has a strong influence, especially concerning women, children, and the tribe’s moral code. This code applies only to Gypsies, so, for instance, lying to or stealing from non-gypsies is not discouraged. Although the leader of a Gypsy band could be a non-Romany, and intermarriage could and did occur, Gypsies use the generally pejorative gaje (peasants, bumpkins) or gorgios when referring to non-gypsies. Just because there is no official king or queen of the Gypsies on Earth is not to say you can’t have one in your campaign, of course. Vlax Romani terms would be: king, thagar; queen, thagarni. Hungarian The Hungarians call themselves Magyars, and their country Magyarorsszág. They were originally nomadic tribal horsemen from Asia, who settled around the north of the Black Sea by the 9th century, and had formed a feudal kingdom by the 10th. Many of their names have been in use for a thousand years or more. The pattern is unusual for the western world: the family name first followed by a personal name, for example, Kovács József. Middle names are not used. The son and daughter of József might be known as Kovács István and Kovács Mária, for instance. Hungarians may switch the order when they deal with other Europeans, though. Family names derive from locations, occupations, nicknames, and most commonly patronymics. The suffix ‘-fi’, short for ‘fia’ meaning ‘his son’, was added to the father’s personal name to form the patronymic. The Hungarians have diminutives for most given names, usually formed by adding an ending to part of the original name. Ilona gives rise to Iluska; Zsuzsanna becomes Zsusaka or even Zsa.zsa. There are also variants for family names (Györfi, Gyôrfi, Györffi, Gyôrffi, Györfy, Gyôrfy, Györffy, Gyôrffy, for instance, and there are over 20 variants of Szöllôs). Pronunciation The Hungarian language is phonetic, that is, you say all the letters. Hungarian has its own way of denoting sibilants: the /s/ is pronounced /sh/, the /sz/ is /ss/, and the /z/ is a normal /z/; the /zs/ is pronounced /zh/, the /cs/ is /tch/, and /c/ is /tz/. At the end of family names, /y/ is the same as /i/, otherwise it is palatal (put your tongue against your palate briefly when saying it). The consonants are hard, but /k/, /p/, and /t/ are slightly softer than in English, and /ny/ softer than in Spanish. The /ö/ sounds like / oeh/ and /ü/ sounds like /euh/, as in German (from which they come). The acute-accented vowels are long, the others short, so note, and /û/ sounds like the ‘u’ in tune. Double consonants are /á/ as in father, /e/ as in pen. The usual double acute accent (o”) long, almost as if they were said twice, so ‘Attila’ sounds like At-is shown as a circumflex (ô) here so that it prints over the letter. tila, and ‘Tessza’ like Tess-ssa (it’s Tesz-sza, but the last letter of It indicates long front rounded vowels: /ô/ sounds like the ‘o’ in the first ‘sz’ consonant is omitted by convention). Family Names Common: Balogh, Farkas, Fekete, Horváth, Juhász, Kiss, Kovács, Lakatos, Mészáros, Molnár, Nagy, Németh, Oláh, Papp, Rácz, Simon, Szabó, Takács, Tóth, Varga Standard: Abel, Ambrus, Antal, Asztalos, Baán, Bakos, Balázs, Bálint, Balla, Balog, Balogh, Barabás, Barna, Barta, Bartha, Beke, Bene, Benke, Benkô, Berecz, Biró, Bodnár, Bodor, Bogdán, Bognár, Borbély, Boros, Budai, Császár, Csikós, Csizmazia, Csordás, Dankó, Dávid, Deák, Demeter, Dénes, Dobos, Domokos, Domonkos, Dömötör, Dudás, Egyed, Elek, Erdélyi, Erôs, Fábián, Faragó, Farkas, Fazekas, Fehér, Fekete, Ferenc, Ferenczy, Fodor, Földes, Forgách, Fülöp, Gaál, Gábor, Gál, Galambos, Gáspár, Gerencsér, Gerô, Gulyás, Gyulai, Gyulay, Hajdu, Halász, Hegedûs, Herczeg, Horváth, Huszár, Illés, Imre, Jakab, Jánosi, Jónás, József, Juhász, Kádár, Kardos, Kárpáti, Kaszás, Katona, Kelemen, Kerekes, Király, Kis, Kiss, Kocsis, Kolumbán, Kovách, Kovács, Kozma, Kristóf, Kultsár, Kun, Lakatos, Lang, László, Lázár, Lengyel, Lipták, Lörinc, Lôrincz, Lovász, Lukács, Madarász, Magyar, Májer, Major, Makai, Markó, Márkus, Márton, Máté, Mátyás, Mejer, Mester, Mészáros, Mihály, Miklós, Molnár, Nagy, Nemes, Németh, Novák, Nyári, Nyerges, Oláh, Orbán, Orosz, Orsós, Paál, Pál, Pálffi, Pálinkás, Pap, Papp, Pásztor, Pataki, Péter, Pethô, Pintér, Polgár, Pusztay, Rácz, Rigó, Róbert, Rózsa, Saági, Saári, Sándor, Sárközy, Schmid, Sebestyén, Simon, Sipos, Smit, Soltész, Somogyi, Somos, Soós, Söröss, Sós, Szabó, Szakács, Szalai, Szántó, Szathmár, Szegedi, Székely, Szekeres, Szilágyi, Szilárd, Szôke, Szöllôs, Szôlôsy, Szûcs, Taar, Takács, Takáts, Tamás, Tamási, Teleki, Téli, Thimár, Thúri, Torma, Török, Tót, Tóth, Ujvári, Urbán, Vadász, Váradi, Várady, Varga, Vargha, Vass, Végh, Veres, Veress, Vincze, Virág, Virágh, Vörös, Zarka, Zsinkó Male Personal Names Common: András, Attila, Csaba, Ferenc, Gábor, György, Gyula, Imre, István, János, József, Lajos, László, Mihály, Péter, Sándor, Tamás, Tibor, Zoltán, Zsolt Some diminutives: István (Pista, Pisti, Pityu, Pistika, Pityuka), László (Laci, Lacika, Lackó, Lala), József (Jóska, Józsi, Józsika, Jóci, Jóka), János (Jani, Jancsi, Janika, Jancsika), Sándor (Sanyi, Elek, Dodi) Standard: Ábel, Adalbert, Ádám, Ágoston, Ákos, Alajos, Albert, Álmos, Ambrus, András, Antal, Árpád, Atilla, Attila, Balázs, Bálint, Barnabás, Béla, Bence, Benedek, Bernát, Bertalan, Boldizsár, Csaba, Csák, Csongor, Dániel, Dávid, Demeter, Dénes, Dezsô, Döme, Dömötör, Ede, Elek, Elemér, Endre, Ernö, Ernô, Ervin, Fábián, Farkas, Ferenc, Frigyes, Fülöp, Gábor, Gábriel, Gáspár, Gellért, Gergely, Gergô, Géza, Gottfrid, Gusztáv, Gyôzô, György, Gyula, Henrik, Ignác, Ignacz, Íllés, Imre, István, Izsák, Jakab, Jákob, János, Jenô, Jerémiás, József, Kálmán, Károly, Kelemen, Konrád, Kornél, Kristóf, Krisztián, Lajos, László, Lázár, Levente, Lipot, Lóránd, Lóránt, Lörinc, Lukács, Márk, Martin, Márton, Máté, Mátyás, Menyhért, Mihály, Miklós, Mózes, Nándor, Norbert, Ödön, Orbán, Oszkár, Ottó, Pál, Péter, Rezsö, Richárd, Rickárd, Rikárd, Róbert, Roland, Rudolf, Rudulf, Salamon, Sámuel, Sándor, Sebestyén, Simon, Soma, Szabolcs, Szilárd, Szilveszter, Taddeus, Tádé, Tádor, Tamás, Tibor, Tiborc, Tivadar,Tóbiás, Valter, Vencel, Viktor, Vilmos, Vince, Zakariás, Zoltán, Zsigmond, Zsolt Female Personal Names Common: Ágnes, Andrea, Anna, Edit, Erika, Erzsébet, Eszter, Éva, Ildikó, Ilona, Irén, Judit, Julianna, Katalin, Krisztina, Magdolna, Margit, Mária, Rozália, Zsuzsanna Some diminutives: Mária (Mara, Mari, Maris, Marika, Mariska, Marica, Manci, Ria, Rica, Rika), Erzsébet (Erzsi, Bözsi, Erzsike, Bözsike), Ilona (Ilonka, Ica, Ilus, Cilka, Ilka, Ili), Katalin (Kata, Katinka, Kató, Kata, Kati, Kato, Katica, Katika), Éva (Évi, Vica, Évike) Standard: Ade, Adrienn, Agáta, Ágnes, Ágota, Alexandra, Aloizia, Alojzia, Amália, Amélia, Andrea, Anett, Angyalka, Anikó, Anita, Anito, Anna, Annamária, Annina, Aranka, Árvácska, Barbara, Beáta, Bernadett, Borbála, Brigitta, Cecília, Csilla, Csillag, Dóra, Dorottya, Edina, Edit, Elvira, Emerencia, Emese, Emilia, Emma, Emôke, Enikô, Erika, Erzsébet, Eszter, Eta, Etel, Etelka, Eufrozina, Éva, Franciska, Fruzsina, Gabriella, Gizella, Gunda, Gyöngyi, Gyöngyvet, Györgyi, Hajnalka, Heléna, Henriett, Henrietta, Ibolya, Ida, Ildikó, Ilona, Irén, Irma, Jácinta, Jolán, Józsa, Judit, Júlia, Julianna, Jusztina, Kamilla, Karolina, Kata, Katalin, Katinka, Kató, Kinga, Klára, Krisztina, Léna, Lidia, Liliána, Lilium, Lina, Luca, Lucza, Magda, Magdaléna, Magdolna, Margaréta, Margit, Mária, Marianna, Márta, Matild, Melinda, Mónika, Nikolett, Nikoletta, Nina, Nóra, Orsolya, Ottilia, Panna, Patricia, Piroska, Réka, Renáta, Rita, Róza, Rozália, Rozanna, Rózsa, Sára, Sarolt, Sarolta, Szilvia, Teréz, Terézia, Tessza, Tímea, Tünde, Valéria, Verona, Veronika, Viktória, Vilma, Viola, Virág, Zoltána, Zsanett, Zsófia, Zsuzsa, Zsuzsanna Medieval Hungarian Apart from using bynames rather than family names, all that many variants of each name. changed was the more frequent personal names. There were Male Common:Ambrus, András,Antal, Balázs, Bálint, Benedek, Ferenc, Gergely, György, Imre, István, János, László, Máté, Mátyás, Mihály, Miklós, Pál, Péter,Tamás Female Common:Ade, Agáta, Anna, Borbála, Dorottya, Erzsébet, Heléna, Ilona, Irisko, Józsa, Katalin, Katherina, Klára, Krisztina, Magdolna, Margaréta, Orsolya, Sára, Zsófia, Zsuzsanna Norse The people of the three kingdoms of Sweden, Norway, and Denmark in Dark Ages Scandinavia were the Norse, and their language was Norse (Old Norse from the 8th to 14th centuries). The seafaring Vikings, most active in the 8th to 11th centuries, were Norsemen - ‘viking’ was an occupation, involving trade, piracy and raiding, and taking land. The Norse traded and reaved all over Europe, and settled in Britain, northern France (they became the Normans), Russia, Iceland, Greenland, and beyond. The settlers were soon assimilated into established cultures. By the 9th century, the Norse had reached Constantinople; thereafter the elite bodyguard of the Byzantine emperors, the Varangian Guard, was made up of Norse mercenaries. Only personal names were used, with a byname if needed. Nicknames were frequent (Fairhair, Bluetooth, the Red, the Wise, Bloodaxe), but patronymics more so: ‘son’ meaning ‘son’ or ‘dóttir’ meaning ‘daughter’ was added after the genitive case of the father’s personal name. For instance, the son and daughter of Grímr might have been known as Thorkell Grímsson and Guthrun Grímsdóttir. Norse personal names, like Anglo-Saxon and Germanic names, could be formed from a pair of elements or just one element. However, there seem to have been more restrictions about which Male Personal Names elements could be combined and what could be used where, so a table of name elements for random selection was not con.structed. Name elements could be vocabulary items, or could include the name of a god, such as Thor. There were a few adaptations from other cultures as well. Pronunciation If you speak Icelandic, use that pronunciation. But just in case you don’t… The final ‘r’ of a name is not pronounced unless it follows a vowel (and is optional then). Stress is on the first syllable. In Norse, the /j/ is pronounced /y/, so /hj/ is like the start of ‘hew’. The /f/ changes to a /v/ sound if between vowels or ending a name. Any double consonants between vowels are pronounced separately (as in ‘bookkeeper’), as are the letters in / ng/ and /nk/ (as in ‘single’ and ‘ankle’). The /æ/ (the ae ligature) rhymes with ‘eye’, and the /ai/ rhymes with ‘way’. The /i/, /o/, and /u/ rhyme with ‘free’, ‘rope’, and ‘moon’ respectively: the vowels are longer when they have acute accents (í, ó, ú). The /á/ sounds like ‘ow’, the /é/ sounds like ‘yeah’. The /ö/ and /ø/ sound like /oeh/, and /aa/ and /ey/ sound like /eoh/. The distinctions between hard and soft /th/ (thorn and eth) are not shown, but as a rule, the /th/ starting a name or the element ‘thor’ is the hard /th/ of ‘thick’, and others are the soft /th/ of ‘then’. (The final ‘th’ later became a ‘d’, so Astrithr became Astrid, and so on.) Common: Bjórn, Einarr,Grímr, Helgi, Ketill, Ragnarr,Thorbjörn, Thorgeirr,Thórir,Thorkell, Thorsteinn, Thórthr Standard: Álfr, Án,Ari,Arinbjörn, Ármóthr,Arnbjórn,Arngeirr,Arngrímr,Arnljotr,Arnmóthr,Arnórr,Arnríthr, Ásbjórn, Ásbrandr, Ásgeirr, Áskell, Áslákr, Ásmólfr, Ásmundr,Athalsteinn, Athils, Atli, Authun, Ævarr, Barthi, Bárthr, Bergr, Bergthórr, Bersi, Bjarni, Bjórn, Bödmóthr, Bogi, Bolli, Bölverkr, Börkr, Bóthvarr, Bótólfr,Brandr, Brúni, Brynjólfr, Dufthakr, Egill, Eilífr,Einarr, Eindrithi, Eiríkr, Eldgrimr, Eyjólfr, Eymundr, Eysteinn, Eyvindr, Finnbogi, Finni, Finnr, Finnvarthr, Flóki, Flosi, Galti, Gautr, Geiri, Geirmundr, Geirr, Geirrøthr, Geitir, Gellir, Gestr, Gils, Gísli, Gizurr, Glædir,Glúmr,Gnúpr, Gormr,Grani,Grenjathr, Grímkell, Grímólfr,Grímr, Gríss, Gunnarr, Gunnjörn, Gunnlaugr, Gunnólfr, Gunnsteinn, Guthlaugr, Guthleifr, Guthmundr, Guthrøthr, Gyrthr, Hafgrímr, Haflithi, Hafr, Hafthórr, Hákon, Hálfdan, Hallbjórn, Halldórr, Hallgrímr, Halli, Hallkell, Hallormr, Hallr, Hallsteinn, Hallvarthr, Hámundr, Haraldr, Hárekr, Haukr, Hávarthr, Helgi, Herjólfr, Hermundr, Hethinn, Hildir, Hjalti, Hjörleifr, Hjörr, Hjörtr, Hlöthver, Högni, Hólmsteinn, Hórthr, Hóskuldr, Hrafn, Hrafnkell, Hrani, Hrappr, Hrathi, Hrærekr, Hreitharr, Hróaldr, Hróarr, Hrólfr, Hrómundr, Hróthgeirr, Hrothmarr, Hvati, Illugi, Ingjaldr, Ingólfr, Ísleifr, Ísrauthr, Ivarr, Jökull, Jón, Jörundr, Jósteinn, Kálfr, Kári, Karl, Karli, Kárr, Ketill, Kjallakr, Kjartan, Klængr, Kleppjárn, Knjúkr, Knörr, Kolbeinn, Kolgrímr, Kolli, Kollr, Kollsveinn, Kolr, Kothrán, Leithólfr, Máni, Már, Mörór, Njáll, Oddbjörn, Oddi, Oddleifr, Oddr, Ófeigr, Óláfr, Óleifr, Ölmóthr, Ölvir, Önundr, Ørlygr,Ormr, Örn, Örnólfr, Otkell, Óttarr, Özurr, Ragnarr, Rauthulfr, Reginulfr, Refr, Rúnólfr, Sæbjörn, Sæmundr, Sigfastr, Sigfúss, Sighvatr, Sigmundr, Sigurthr, Skagi, Skeggi, Skíthi, Skjaldbjörn, Skjálgr, Skjóldúlfr, Skorageirr, Skorri, Skúli, Skúmr, Snæbjörn, Snorri, Sölvi, Starkathr, Steinarr, Steinbjörn, Steingrímr, Steinmóthr, Steinn, Steinólfr, Steinrøthr, Steinthórr, Sturla, Styrbjörn, Styrmir, Sumarlithi, Surtr, Svanr, Svarthöfthi, Svartr, Sveinbjörn, Sveinungr, Svertingr, Tanni, Teitr, Thengill, Thithrandi, Thjóthólfr, Thórarinn, Thorbergr, Thorbjörn, Thorbrandr, Thorfinnr, Thorgeirr, Thorgestr, Thorgils, Thorgrímr, Thórhaddr, Thórhallr, Thórir, Thorkell, Thorlákr, Thorleifr, Thorleikr, Thormóthr,Thóroddr, Thórólfr,Thórormr, Thorsteinn, Thórthr, Thorvaldr, Thorvalthr, Thorvithr, Thóthrekr, Thrainn, Thrasi, Thróndr, Thröstr, Tindr, Tjórvi, Torfi, Torrathr Yngvarr,Tyrfingr, Úlfar, Úlfhethinn, Úlfljótr, Úlfr,Valbrandr,Valgarthr,Váli, Vébrandr,Végestr,Vémundr,Vestarr,Vestmathr, Véthormr, Vífill, Vigfúss Female Personal Names Common: Guthrún, Helga, Jórunn, Thóra, Thorbjörg, Thórdís, Thorgerthr, Thórunn, Thuríthr, Valgerthr, Vigdís, Yngvildr Standard:Aase, Ægileif,Adís, Ágærthr,Aldís, Álfdís, Álfeithr, Álfgerthr, Álfhildr,Alfny,Alfrun, Alví,Alfvör,Algun, Álöf, Alvoer, Anddísi, Arnbjórg,Arndís, Arneidr,Arneithr,Arnfríthr,Arngerthr,Arngunnr,Arnkatla, Arnlaug, Arnleif, Arnljot, Arnóra, Arnrithr, Arnthruthr, Æsa, Ásbjórg, Ásdís, Ásgerthr, Ásgunnr, Áshildr, Áskatla, Aslaug, Ásleif, Ásmóthr, Ásny, Ásta, Ástríthr, Ásvör, Authbjorg,Authfríthr,Authhildr,Authr, Bera, Bergdís, Bergljót, Bergthóra, Birna, Bjargey, Bjarlaug, Bjollok, Björg, Bolla, Bót, Bóthæithr, Bothildr, Böthney, Bótví, Bryndís, Bryngerthr, Brynhildr, Dagfrithr, Dagny, Dagrún, Dalla, Dís, Dísælfr, Drifa, Dyrdís, Dyrfinna, Dyrhildr, Eirny, Elfrithr, Elína, Ethna, Eydís, Eyja, Eylaug, Eyvör, Fastgærthr, Fasthæithr, Fastlaug, Fastny, Finna, Fjördís, Fjórleif, Fregerthr, Freydís, Freyleif, Frítha, Frithgerthr, Geirbjórg, Geirhildr, Geirlaug, Geirny, Geirríthr, Gerthr, Gjaflaug, Grélöth, Gríma, Gróa, Gunnhildr, Gunnlaug, Gunnvör, Guthbjörg, Guthlaug, Guthleif, Guthny, Guthríthr, Guthrún, Hafthóra, Halla, Hallbera, Hallbjörg, Halldís, Halldóra, Hallfríthr, Hallgerthr, Hallkatla, Hallthora, Hallveig, Hallvör, Heimdís, Heimlaug, Heithr, Helga, Herbjörg, Herdís, Hergerthr, Herlaug, Herríthr, Herthrúthr, Hervör, Hildigerthr, Hildigunnr, Hildísif, Hjalmdís, Hjálmgerthr, Hjálp, Hjördís, Hlíf, Holmdís, Holmfrithr, Holmgerthr, Holmlaug, Hrafnhildr, Hrefna, Hróthny, Húngerthr, Ingibjörg, Ingigerthr, Ingileif, Ingirun, Ingithora, Ingríthr, Ingunn, Ingvöldr, Ísgerthr, Islaug, Isrithr, Ithunn, Járngerthr, Jódís, Jófríthr, Jóra, Jóreithr, Jórunn, Katla, Ketilbjörg, Ketilfrithr, Ketilríthr, Kjölvör, Kolfinna, Kolgríma, Magnhildr, Melkorka, Mjöll, Móeithr, Myrgjol, Myrún, Nithbjörg, Oddbjörg, Oddfríthr, Oddlaug, Oddleif, Oddny, Oddrunn, Öndótt, Ormgerthr, Ormhildr, Ósk, Otkatla, Raförta, Ragnfrithr, Ragnheithr, Ragnhildr, Rannlaug, Rannveig, Reginhlif, Reginleif, Reginthruthr, Rjúpa, Runfrithr, Runhildr, Sæhildr, Salbjörg, Salgerthr, Sæuthr, Signy, Sigríthr, Sigrunn, Sigthruthr, Sinn, Snælaug, Sólveig, Sölvör, Steinfrithr, Steingerthr, Steinhildr, Steinunn, Steinvör, Svana, Svanhildr, Svanlaug, Thjóthgerthr, Thjóthhildr, Thóra, Thórarna, Thorbjörg, Thórdís, Thórelfr, Thórey, Thorfinna, Thorgerthr, Thorgríma, Thórhildr, Thorkatla, Thorlaug, Thorleif, Thorlót, Thórny, Thórodda, Thórunn, Thórvé, Thórvör, Thraslaug, Thuríthr, Tófa, Úlfeithr, Úlfhildr, Úlfrún, Valbjörg, Valdís, Valgerthr,Védís, Vefreyja, Vefrithr, Vélaug, Vény,Vigdís, Vilborg, Vilgerthr,Yngvildr,Yrr Norwegian Modern naming patterns are the same as those for English: one common. Female personal names were often formed by adding or more personal names (usually one) followed by a family name, the feminine suffix ‘-e’ to male names. for example, Bjørn Hansen. Norwegians have followed western patterns, in that women at Although quite a few Norwegians had hereditary family names, first lost their last names after marriage, but now may choose to particularly among the upper classes, they did not use them keep their maiden names. In a revival of the old customs, they widely until the late 19th century, and it was only in 1923 that the may also opt to use genuine patronymics. use of such names became law. Most people instead used patronymics: ‘sen’ after the father’s personal name meant ‘son’ Pronunciation and ‘datter’ meant ‘daughter’. For instance, the son and In Norwegian, the /j/ is pronounced /y/. The /å/ is sometimes daughter of Anders might have been known as Geir Anderssen written as /aa/ and in both cases sounds like /eoh/ (a cross and Liv Andersdatter (the latter patronymic usually pronounced between the sounds in ‘rod’ and ‘road’). The /ø/ sounds like / something like ‘Anderste’). Patronymics provided the basis for oeh/ (as in French deux or German schön). Final e’s sound like / many family names, but place name derivatives were also quite a/, so ‘Anna’ and ‘Anne’ sound the same. Male Personal Names Common:Anders, Arne, Bjørn, Erik, Geir, Hans, Jan, John, Kjell, Knut, Lars, Morten, Odd, Ole, Per, Rune, Svein, Terje, Thomas, Tor Standard: Adrian,Aleksander,Alexander,Alf, Alfred,Anders, Andre, Andreas,Arild, Arne,Arvid, Asbjørn, Bendik, Benjamin, Birger, Bjarne, Bjørn, Brage, Christian, Christoffer, Dag, Daniel, David, Dennis, Egil, Einar, Eirik, Eivind, Elias, Emil, Erik, Erlend, Erling, Eskil, Espen, Even, Filip, Finn, Frank, Fredrik, Frode, Geir, Gunnar, Håkon, Hans, Harald, Håvard, Helge, Henrik, Herman, Isak, Ivar, Jakob, Jan, Jarle, Jens, Jesper, Joachim, Joakim, Johan, Johannes, John, Jon, Jonas, Jonathan, Jørgen, Jørn, Josef, Jostein, Kåre, Karl, Kasper, Kenneth, Kevin, Kim, Kjell, Kjetil, Knut, Kristian, Kristoffer, Lars, Leif, Mads, Magne, Magnus, Marcus, Marius, Markus, Martin, Mathias, Mats, Morten, Nikolai, Nils, Odd, Oddvar, Ola, Olaf, Olav, Ole, Oliver, Oscar, Oskar, Ove, Øystein, Øyvind, Pål, Patrick, Paul, Peder, Per, Petter, Philip, Ragnar, Reidar, Roar, Robert, Robin, Roger, Rolf, Roy, Ruben, Rune, Sander, Sebastian, Sigurd, Simen, Simon, Sindre, Sivert, Sondre, Steffen, Stein, Steinar, Stian, Stig, Svein, Sverre, Terje, Thomas, Thor, Tobias, Tom, Tommy, Tor, Torbjørn, Tore, Trond, Trygve, Trym, Vegard, Vetle, Vidar, William Female Personal Names Common:Anne, Astrid, Berit, Bjørg, Elisabeth, Eva, Gerd, Hilde, Inger, Ingrid, Kari, Liv, Marianne, Marit, Nina, Ragnhild, Randi, Solveig Standard: Aase, Agnes, Amalie, Amanda, Andrea, Andrine, Ane, Anette, Anita, Ann, Anna, Anne, Åse, Aslaug, Astrid, Aud, Aurora, Beate, Bente, Berit, Birgitte, Bjørg, Bodil, Borghild, Brit, Britt, Camilla, Caroline, Cathrine, Cecilia, Cecilie, Celine, Charlotte, Dagny, Eli, Elin, Eline, Elisabeth, Elise, Ellen, Else, Emilie, Emma, Eva, Frida, Frøydis, Gerd, Grete, Grethe, Gro, Gudrun, Gunhild, Gunn, Gunvor, Guro, Hanna, Hannah, Hanne, Hedda, Hege, Heidi, Helene, Helga, Henriette, Hilde, Hjørdis, Ida, Inga, Ingeborg, Inger, Ingrid, Ingunn, Ingvild, Irene, Iselin, Janne, Jenny, Johanne, Jorunn, Julie, Kaja, Karen, Kari, Karin, Karoline, Kirsten, Kjersti, Klara, Kristin, Kristina, Kristine, Laila, Lene, Lillian, Linda, Line, Linn, Lisa, Lisbeth, Lise, Liv, Magnhild, Maja, Malene, Malin, Maren, Margit, Mari, Maria, Marianne, Marie, Marit, Marte, Martha, Marthe, Martine, Mary, Mathilde, May, Mette, Mia, Mina, Mona, Monica, Nina, Nora, Oda, Olga, Patricia, Pernille, Ragna, Ragnhild, Randi, Rebecca, Rebekka, Reidun, Rikke, Rita, Ruth, Sandra, Sara, Sarah, Sidsel, Signe, Sigrid, Silje, Siri, Sissel, Siv, Sofie, Solveig, Stine, Sunniva, Synne, Synnøve, Thea, Tina, Tiril, Tone, Tonje, Torill, Tove, Trine, Turid, Tuva, Unni, Victoria, Vigdis, Vilde, Wenche Family Names Common: Andersen, Andreassen, Berg, Eriksen, Hagen, Halvorsen, Hansen, Haugen, Jacobsen, Jensen, Johannessen, Johansen, Johnsen, Karlsen, Kristiansen, Larsen, Nilsen, Olsen, Pedersen, Pettersen Standard: Aamodt, Aas, Aase, Aasen, Aasheim, Abrahamsen, Ahmed, Ali, Amundsen, Andersen, Andersson, Andreassen, Andresen, Antonsen, Arnesen, Arntsen, Arntzen,Aune, Bakke, Bakken, Bendiksen, Berg, Berge, Berger, Bergersen, Berget, Berntsen, Birkeland, Bjelland, Bjerke, Bjørnsen, Bjørnstad, Bø, Bøe, Bolstad, Borge, Borgen, Børresen, Bråten, Bråthen, Bredesen, Breivik, Brekke, Brevik, Bye, Carlsen, Christensen, Christiansen, Christoffersen, Dahl, Dahle, Dale, Dalen, Danielsen, Davidsen, Edvardsen, Egeland, Eggen, Eide, Eikeland, Eilertsen, Eliassen, Ellefsen, Ellingsen, Endresen, Engebretsen, Engen, Enger, Eriksen, Espeland, Evensen, Farstad, Finstad, Fjeld, Fjeldstad, Foss, Fosse, Fossum, Fredriksen, Gabrielsen, Gjerde, Gjertsen, Gran, Grande, Grimstad, Gulbrandsen, Gulliksen, Gundersen, Gustavsen, Haaland, Haga, Hagen, Håkonsen, Håland, Halvorsen, Hammer, Hamre, Hansen, Hanssen, Haraldsen, Haug, Haugan, Hauge, Haugen, Haugland, Helgesen, Helland, Helle, Henriksen, Hermansen, Hetland, Hoel, Hoff, Hole, Holen, Holm, Holmen, Holt, Holte, Holter, Hovland, Husby, Ingebrigtsen, Isaksen, Iversen, Jacobsen, Jakobsen, Jansen, Jensen, Jenssen, Johannesen, Johannessen, Johansen, Johansson, Johnsen, Jonassen, Jørgensen, Karlsen, Klausen, Kleppe, Kleven, Knudsen, Knutsen, Kolstad, Kristensen, Kristiansen, Kristoffersen, Krogh, Krogstad, Kvam, Kvamme, Langeland, Larsen, Larssen, Lauritzen, Lian, Lie, Lien, Lind, Lindberg, Løken, Løkken, Lorentzen, Ludvigsen, Lund, Lunde, Madsen, Magnussen, Mæland, Markussen, Marthinsen, Martinsen, Mathisen, Meland, Melby, Meyer, Mikalsen, Mikkelsen, Mo, Moe, Moen, Møller, Monsen, Mørk, Mortensen, Myhre, Myklebust, Myrvang, Myrvold, Næss, Ness, Nesse, Nguyen, Nielsen, Nikolaisen, Nilsen, Nilssen, Nilsson, Nordahl, Nordbø, Nordby, Nordli, Norheim, Normann, Nyborg, Nygaard, Nygård, Nyhus, Ødegaard, Ødegård, Øien, Olafsen, Olaussen, Olsen, Opsahl, Østby, Ottesen, Øverland, Paulsen, Pedersen, Petersen, Pettersen, Rasmussen, Reitan, Riise, Ringstad, Rød, Røed, Rønning, Rønningen, Rustad, Ruud, Salvesen, Samuelsen, Sand, Sandberg, Sande, Sandnes, Sandvik, Sæther, Sætre, Simensen, Simonsen, Sivertsen, Skaar, Skaug, Skogen, Skoglund, Sletten, Smith, Solbakken, Solberg, Solem, Solhaug, Solheim, Solli, Solvang, Sørensen, Sørli, Sørlie, Sørum, Stangeland, Steen, Steffensen, Stenberg, Stene, Stensrud, Stokke, Strand, Strøm, Sund, Sunde, Sveen, Svendsen, Syversen, Syvertsen, Tangen, Teigen, Thomassen, Thorbjørnsen, Thoresen, Thorsen, Thorstensen, Thorvaldsen, Tollefsen, Tønnessen, Torgersen, Torp, Tran, Tvedt, Tveit, Vatne, Vik, Viken, Vold, Waage, Wang, Wiik, Wilhelmsen, Wold Medieval Norwegian Apart from using patronymics rather than family names, all that changed was the more frequent personal names. Male Common:Anders,Andreas, Erik, Hans, Henrik, Jakob, Jens, Johan, Johannes, Jon, Kristen, Kristoffer, Lars, Mikkel, Mons, Nils, Ola, Pål, Peder, Petter Female Common:Anne, Berte, Dorte, Elen, Elisabet, Else, Ingeborg, Inger, Johanna, Karen, Kirsten, Kristianna, Malene, Maren, Margrete, Marit, Marte, Olava, Pernilla, Randi Polish The pattern is the same as the English one: one or more personal names (one is most common) followed by a family name, for example, Stanislaw Wozniak. Polish family names derived from a mix of locations, occupations, and nicknames, but took a while to develop. Nobles used family names (usually ending with -skior or -cki) indicating a place, but might change the name when they moved. The names were fixed and inheritable by the 17th century. Most others followed suit by the first half of the 18th century, but even then, families often modified surnames freely both by spelling and suffixes. Many suffixes were used to form family names: the name Kowal (Smith) also gave rise to Kowalak, Kowalczyk, Kowalewski, Kowalik, Kowalka, Kowalkowski, and Kowalski (to name but a few). In the 19th century, family names became fixed, but not before many keen to shine up their social status had adopted one of the Male Personal Names ‘noble’ suffixes. Polish personal names have commonly been those of saints since the Middle Ages. Pronunciation Polish has a lot of diacritical marks disregarded here. The /a/ is long, as in ‘art’. The /i/ is a long /ee/ sound. The /w/ is a /v/ sound, and the /j/ is a /y/. The /c/ is a /ts/, and the /ch/ is a throat-clearing noise, not the hard /tch/ that starts chair - that is indicated by /cz/. The /dz/ is like the soft /g/ in ‘gin’. The /rz/ sounds like ‘rr-zh’, and the /sz/ is /sh/. The /y/ sounds like /euh/ (a cross between ‘mew’and ‘moo’). Some examples: ‘Tadeusz’is Tah-doosh, ‘Zygmunt’ is Zheug-munt, ‘Franciszká’is frahn.Tseesh-kah, ‘Marja’is Mahr-ya, ‘Rzeuwuski’is r-zhe-Vuh-skee, ‘Przybyszewski’ is pr-zheu-beu-Shev-skee. (The spellings are often simplified outside Poland!) Common:Adam,Andrzej, Jan, Jerzy, Kazimierz, Krzysztof, Roman, Stanislaw, Stefan, Szymon, Tadeusz, Tomasz Standard:Adalbert, Adam,Albert, Albrycht, Aleksander,Aleksy,Alfons, Alojzy,Ambrozy,Anastazy,Andrzej, Antoni,Antonin, Apolinarius, Apolonius, Artur,August, Augustyn, Baltazar, Barnabas, Bartlomiej, Bazyli, Bede, Benedykt, Bernard, Bernardyn, Blazej, Bogumil, Boleslaw, Bonifacy, Bronislaw, Brunon, Cyprian, Cyryl, Czeslaw, Dawid, Dionizy, Dominik, Dyonizy, Dytryk, Edmund, Edward, Eryk, Eugeniusz, Fabian, Feliks, Ferdynand, Filip, Florentyna, Florjan, Franciszek, Fryderyk, Gabriel, Grzegorz, Gustaw, Gwidon, Henryk, Henryka, Hiacynt, Hieronim, Hieronym, Hipolit, Honoratus, Ignacy, Jacek, Jakub, Jan, Jerzy, Joachim, Joakim, Jozef, Jozefat, Julian, Justin, Justyn, Kajetan, Kamil, Karol, Kasper, Kazimierz, Klemens, Klement, Konrad, Konstanty, Krystian, Krzysztof, Ksawery, Leon, Leonard, Lorenz, Lucjan, Ludwik, Lukasz, Maciej, Maksymilian, Marceli, Marcelian, Marcin, Marek, Mateusz, Maurycy, Melchior, Metody, Michal, Mieczyslaw, Mikolaj, Nicodem, Norbert, Odon, Onufrius, Onufry, Otto, Pankracy, Patrycjusz, Pawel, Piotr, Rafael, Rafal, Rajmund, Roch, Roman, Romuald, Ryszard, Saturnin, Sebastian, Seweryn, Simeon, Stanislaw, Stefan, Sylwester, Szczepan, Szymon, Tadeusz, Teodor, Teodozjusz, Teofil, Timoteusz, Tomasz, Tymoteusz, Urban, Waclaw, Waldyslaw, Walenty, Walerian, Walery, Wawrzyniec, Wicenty,Wiktor, Wilhelm, Wincenty, Witus, Wladimir, Wladyslaw, Wlodzimierz, Wojciech, Zachariasz, Zenon, Zygmunt Female Personal Names Common:Anná, Beatá, Edytá, Elzbietá, Ewá, Irená, Izabelá, Katarzyná, Krystyná, Marja, Urszulá, Zofja Standard:Adelá, Agatá, Agnieszká, Aleská, Anastaziá, Anastazjá, Anielá, Anná, Antoniá, Antoniná, Apoloniá, Barbará, Beatá, Beatrycze, Bibianá, Boleslawá, Bozená, Bronislawá, Brygidá, Cecyliá, Christiná, Czeslawá, Doloretá, Domicyllá, Domitillá, Dorotá, Edytá, Elzbietá, Emiliá, Emilianá, Ewá, Feliciá, Feliksá, Filomená, Franciszká, Fryderyká, Genowefá, Giertrudá, Haliná, Helená, Henryká, Hiacyntá, Honoratá, Irená, Iriná, Isabelá, Izabelá, Izabellá, Izydor, Jacintá, Jadwigá, Jakubiná, Janiná, Joanná, Jolantá, Jolentá, Jozefá, Jozefiná, Judytá, Juliá, Julianá, Justiná, Justyná, Kamilá, Karoliná, Katarzyná, Klará, Klementyná, Konstancjá, Konstantyná, Krystyná, Kunegundá, Leokadiá, Leokadjá, Lidiá, Lucjá, Ludmilá, Ludwiká, Lukrecjá, Magdalená, Malgorzatá, Marcianná, Marcjanná, Margaritá, Mariá, Marja, Marjanná, Martá, Marthá, Martyná, Maryá, Matyldá, Michaliná, Mieczyslawá, Moniká, Nataliá, Olgá, Patrycjá, Pauliná, Pelagiá, Petronelá, Praksedá, Reginá, Romualdá, Rózá, Rozaliá, Rozaljá, Sabiná, Salomejá, Sofiá, Stanislawá, Stefaniá, Szarlotá, Teklá, Teodorá, Teodozjá, Teofilá, Teresá, Terezá, Urszulá, Urzulá, Waclawá, Walburgá, Walentyná, Wandá, Weroniká, Wiktoriá, Wiktoryá, Wilhelminá, Wladyslawá, Zofja, Zuzanná, Zytá Family Names Note that the list of surnames is in masculine form, and some Polish surnames have have both masculine and feminine endings: -ski/.ska, -cki/-cka, -dzki/-dzka. For females, use feminine endings. For example, the male Kowalski and Krzywicki change to female Kowalska and Krzywicka. The masculine form is usually used outside Poland (and increasingly in recent years, within Poland as well). Common: Kaminski, Kowalski, Kreft, Król, Lewandowski, Mazur, Nowak, Stankiewicz, Szulc, Szymanski, Wisniewski, Wozniak Standard:Abratkiewicz,Adamowski,Aronowitz, Bachleda, Baginski, Bakhvalova, Balcerzak, Baldewski, Bartelski, Bartkowiak, Bartnik, Bartosz, Berent, Bicukowski, Bielecki, Bilyk, Blaszczyk, Bocian, Bojcun, Borowski, Borowy, Borycki, Borzykowski, Bratkiewicz, Brezinski, Broniewski, Brzezinski, Brzoski, Bubelski, Buczacz, Bujak, Chalecki, Charnowski, Chmelnizki, Chwialkowski, Ciesinski, Cimonszewicz, Cymbor, Czacki, Czajkowski, Czartoryski, Czernin, Czubak, Dabrowski, Danilczyk, Dekert, Demidowicz, Derecki, Deren, Dlugopolski, Dlugosz, Dobrzynski, Domaszewski, Draczynski, Drewnowski, Drugnowski, Duglosz, Durnak, Dvorski, Dziadosz, Dzielwialtowski, Dziewanowski, Farasiewicz, Fialkowski, Frasyniuk, Galecki, Garbarczyk, Genachowski, Geremek, Godowski, Goltz, Gomulka, Gorczinski, Gorzynski, Gozdur, Grabowski, Grocholski, Grzybowski, Gusewski, Haczek, Halecki, Hanusz, Haradonski, Iglikowski, Irzykowski, Iwinski, Jackinezak, Jakubowski, Jancewicz, Jankowski, Janowitz, Januszczak, Jaroskavski, Jaruzelski, Jasiorkowski, Jaskula, Jedrusinski, Joachim, Kaczor, Kadlubek, Kaldowski, Kalinski, Kaminski, Kantorowicz, Kapuscinski, Karaczun, Karczmarek, Karczmareks, Karkowszki, Karlowicz, Karpinski, Kawczynski, Keinick, Kierklo, Kieslowski, Kilanowicz, Klimkowski, Klonowic, Kniaznin, Kolakowski, Kollataj, Kolodowicz, Konarski, Kondrat, Kondratowicz, Kopernik, Korzeniowski, Kosciuszko, Kosko, Koslewski, Kovacevich, Kowalak, Kowalczyk, Kowalewski, Kowalkowski, Kowalski, Krakowski, Krasinski, Krasnodebski, Krawczyk, Kreft, Kreiski, Król, Krynski, Krysczyk, Kryzwonos, Krzywicki, Kubrick, Kucharski, Kudzinowski, Kujawski, Kurbiel, Kurylowicz, Kusnierewicz, Kwasniewski, Kwasntewski, Kwiecien, Landowski, Laski, Lednicki, Ledochowski, Lelewel, Lenski, Leszczynski, Lewandowski, Lipiec, Lubelski, Lukasewicz, Lukaszewski, Lusiecki, Lutoslawski, Mackowiak, Magalski, Makoiecki, Maksymowicz, Malachowski, Malackowski, Malecki, Malewski, Malinowski, Mankus, Marcinkiewicz, Markiewicz, Marusiewski, Maskorzewski, Matschewski, Mazowiecki, Mazur, Melichovski, Michalczewski, Michalovski, Mickiewicz, Mikolajcik, Milosz, Mirga, Misgalski, Miternowski, Mitosz, Morsztyn, Motzko, Mroczkowski, Mwowski, Mysinski, Niemojowski, Nieradka, Norwid, Nowadworski, Nowak, Oginski, Olbroz, Oledrowicz, Olichwierczuk, Olszewski, Orkan, Orlos, Orlowicz, Osmulski, Ostapiuk, Osuch, Paderewski, Paradowski, Partyka, Pawlikowski, Pawlusiak, Peplinski, Piasecki, Pieluzek, Pietrzak, Pilaczynski, Pilarczyk, Pilenz, Pilsudski, Plawgo, Plazewski, Pliszka, Plomin, Pokriefke, Poldak, Poleski, Pollack, Poniatowski, Popieluszko, Posnanski, Prazmowski, Pruszenski, Pruszkowski, Przyboá, Przybyszewski, Ptaszynski, Raczkiewicz, Radsiwinowicz, Radtke, Radwanski, Rakowski, Regowaboczski, Rej, Rokowski, Ronowicz, Rosiak, Rostow, Roszko, Rozycki, Ruchala, Rudziewicz, Rydz, Ryshich, Rzeuwuski, Sawatski, Sbroczynski, Schatko, Scigaczewski, Serafinawicz, Shablovski, Sienkiewicz, Sikorcz, Skarba, Skrowaczewski, Skrzypinski, Skupien, Slowacki, Smoczynski, Sobczyk, Sokolowski, Sosabowski, Sowinski, Stankiewicz, Staszewski, Staszicz, Stelmach, Stowkowski, Strenk, Suchocki, Swobodo, Sywala, Szajner, Szasz, Szczucki, Sznajder, Szulc, Szyller, Szymanski, Tancsics, Tiwontschik, Tobolowski, Tomaszewicz, Torczon, Trembecki, Urbanowicz, Urbanowski, Urbanski, Urbas, Uryniuk, Vanski, Voynicz, Wakelin, Walencewicz, Warnicki, Warshawski, Wasowicz, Weclawek, Wielpolski, Wieniawski, Wieruchowski, Wieruszowski, Wisniewski, Witold, Witowski, Wlodarcyk, Wodoslawski, Wojcik, Wojtyla, Wolflin, Wolinski, Wozniak, Wrzodak, Wyndrowski, Wynorski, Wysocki, Wzorek, Yampolski, Zabawski, Zagorski, Zakarzewski, Zapalowski, Zawora, Zbigniew, Zigarski, Ziolkowski, Ziomkowski, Zyndram, Zyrnicki, Zyzyk Medieval Polish Apart from using bynames rather than family names, all that changed was the more frequent personal names. There were many variants of each name. Male Common:Aleksander, Fryderyk, Henryk, Jakub, Klement, Konrad, Krzysztof, Lorenz, Mátyás, Tymoteusz, Wilhelm, Wincenty Female Common:Agnieszká,Anná, Barbará, Dorotá, Giertrudá, Jadwigá, Katarzyná, Reginá, Rozaljá, Stefaniá, Weroniká, Zofja Portuguese Portugal is right next to Spain, and its language and names are almost as close. There is some overlap and borrowing, but there are differences, for instance, the name ‘John’ is João in Portugal and Juan in Spain. More Portuguese names are to be found in Brazil and other former colonies than in Portugal itself. As in English, Portuguese diminutive endings for names can be added casually, or sometimes pet forms can become names in their own right. The masculine diminutive is -inho and the feminine is -inha. The pattern is usually one or more personal names followed by a compound surname formed of two family names: the father’s family name then the mother’s family name, usually linked by ‘e’. For example, if João Lopes e da Silva marries Isabel Cruz e Navarro, their son Tomás would be known as Tomás Lopes e Cruz. Lopes is the family name João got from his father and Cruz is the family name Isabel got from her father. The ‘e’is sometimes dropped now, but does help avoid confusion! (In Brazil, the family name order may be reversed, so that the mother’s family name comes first, but things are otherwise the same.) A woman does not change her name when she marries, but she can, and often does, add her husband’s name, using ‘de’ (meaning ‘of’). If Tomás Lopes e Cruz marries Teresa Pereira e Salazar, his wife might call herself Teresa Pereira e Salazar de Lopes. The Portuguese often add a prefix ‘de’ to indicate a place (meaning ‘of’or ‘from’). It could also appear as do, da, dos, or das, depending on the next word (for male and female singular and male and female plural, respectively) or could be elided with Pronunciation a vowel, as in d’Amaro. These prefixes in family names were kept An accented vowel indicates the stressed syllable of a word. longer than in Spain, but the tendency is to drop the prefix, Final unstressed vowels are weak. A tilde above the first of a especially in the Americas. Add or drop prefixes if you need more vowel pair makes the second nasal (as in Alão). Unlike Spanish, names. the /j/ is like the English one in jar, and the /h/ adds a /y/ sound. The c cedilla /ç/ sounds like /s/. The /s/ sounds like /z/ when it is A man is addressed as Senhor. An unmarried woman is between vowels. The /a/ is short, as in ‘cat’. The /e/ rhymes with addressed as Senhorita, and a married one as Senhora (even if ‘hey’. The /i/ is a long /ee/ sound, and /o/ and /u/ are also long, she has been divorced or widowed). as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ respectively. The /c/ is hard, except before /e/ or /i/. The /g/ is hard, except before /e/ or /i/, where it is a hard /h/. So ‘Jorge’ is pronounced Jor-geh (and not Hor-geh as in Spanish), ‘piranha’ is pee-Rah-nyah, ‘Leão’, is Ley-a-oeh, and so on. Male Personal Names Common:Antônio, Domingos, Félix, Fernando, Francisco, João, Jorge, José, Luis, Tomás Standard:Abílio,Adão, Adrião, Afonso, Alão, Alberto, Aleixo, Alexandre,Alfredo, Aluisio, Alvaro,Amador,Ambrosio, Amilcar, Andre, Anibal, Aniceto, Antero, Antônio, Aquilino, Arnoldo, Artur,Atílio, Augusto,Aurelio, Bartholomeu, Basilio, Batista, Benedito, Benigno, Bernardim, Bernardo, Bruno, Caetano, Camilo, Carlos, Cesário, Claudio, Columbano, Cornélio, Cristiano, Cristovão, Damião, Daniel, Dario, Davi, Dinis, Diogo, Domingos, Donato, Duarte, Edmundo, Eduardo, Egas, Elder, Elias, Eloi, Emilio, Enéas, Epitácio, Ernesto, Estevao, Eugenio, Eurico, Evaristo, Fabião, Fabricio, Feliciano, Felipe, Félix, Fernando, Fernão, Filipe, Firmino, Flavio, Florencio, Fortunato, Francisco, Frederico, Gabriel, Gaspar, Gervasio, Gétulio, Gil, Gomes, Gonçalo, Gonçalvo, Graciano, Gregorio, Guilherme, Gustavo, Heitor, Henrique, Heriberto, Hermes, Hernane, Hipolito, Horacio, Humberto, Inácio, Irineo, Jacto, Javier, João, Joaquim, Jorge, José, Josef, Júlio, Leandro, Leão, Leonardo, Lopes, Lourenço, Luciano, Lucio, Luís, Luiz, Macario, Manoel, Marcelo, Marcelino, Marcio, Marco, Marcos, Mario, Martim, Martinho, Mateus, Mauricio, Maximiliano, Màximo, Medardo, Miguel, Mousinho, Nereu, Nicodemo, Nicolão, Nicolau, Nilo, Nuno, Odilon, Otávio, Paco, Pascoal, Patricio, Paulino, Paulo, Pedro, Pio, Plinio, Rafael, Raimundo, Raúl, Rebelo, Reinaldo, Renato, Ricardo, Roberto, Roldão, Romão, Roque, Rufino, Rui, Salvador, Sansão, Sebastião, Sergio, Severino, Silvio, Simão, Tacito, Tadeu, Teixeira, Teofilo, Timoteo, Tomás, Tomaz, Tristão, Urbano, Valentin, Valerio, Vasco, Vicente, Virgilio, Vitor,Vitorino, Xadreque, Xavier, Zacarias, Zuesef Female Personal Names Common:Ana, Branca, Catarina, Filipa, Isabel, Joana, Leonor, Luísa, Marisa, Teresa Standard: Adelina,Adriana, Agueda, Albertina, Alexandra,Aliuska, Amélia,Ana,Ana-Flavia, Andreia, Antonia, Bárbara, Beatriz, Bernadina, Branca, Calisto, Caridade, Carlota, Carmo, Carolina, Catarina, Caterina, Cebria, Cecília, Celestina, Célia, Clara, Claudia, Conceiçao, Constancia, Cristina, Delfina, Diani, Dores, Dorotéia, Edite, Eduarda, Elana, Eliana, Emilia, Emiliana, Estela, Eufemia, Eugênia, Eva, Felicidade, Felipa, Fernanda, Filipa, Filomena, Fortunata, Francisca, Frederica, Gabriela, Gloria, Graça, Heila, Helena, Hilma, Imaculada, Inês, Irina, Isabel, Isaura, Ivone, Jacinta, Joana, Joaquina, Josefa, Jovita, Judite, Julia, Juliana, Laocadia, Leonor, Leticia, Liana, Lianor, Lorena, Lúcia, Luciana, Lucinda, Lucrecia, Luísa, Madalena, Mafalda, Magdalena, Manuela, Margarida, Maria, Marianna, Marisa, Martina, Matilde, Miguela, Monica, Natalia, Neves, Palmira, Patricia, Paula, Primitiva, Raisa, Raquel, Rebeca, Regla, Ritta, Rosa, Rosalina, Sabina, Serafima, Severina, Silvia, Sonia, Tatiana, Telma, Teodora, Teresa, Tereza, Tina-Maria, Vanda, Verna, Veronica, Visitaçao, Vitoria, Zara Family Names Common: Cruz, da Silva, de Castro, de Sousa, Ferreira, Leitão, Lopes, Medina, Pereira, Salazar Standard: Abreu, Alcoforado, Alvares, Alves, Andrade, Arrais, Azocar, Balsemao, Barreto, Barroso, Bastos, Bernardes, Boaventura, Bonifacio, Bordalo, Braga, Branco, Brandão, Braulio, Braz, Cabral, Cabrillo, Cabeçadas, Caldeira, Câmara, Camacho, Carmona, Carvalho, Castelbranco, Castelo, Chagas, Coelho, Coimbra da Luz, Correia, Corterrael, Cruz, da Assuao, da Costa, da Cruz, da Dano, da Fonesca, da Mota, da Orta, da Silva, Dantas, de Aaraíjo, de Aguiar, de Albreuin, de Almeda, de Almeida, de Arriaga, de Azevedo, de Barros, de Brito, de Castilho, de Castro, de Couto, de Gama, de Faria, de Figueiredo, de Gusmão, de Lima, de Matos, de Melo, de Meneses, de Mesquites, de Miranda, de Moraes, de Oliveira, de Queiroz, de Resende, de Ribeiro, de Rosa, de Sâ, de Santa Rita, de Sequera, de Sousa, de Zurara, Diadoro, Diasall, Diniz, do Amaral, do Cenáculo, do Salvador, dos Reis, dos Santos, Dutra, Eça de Queiroz, Enes, Feijó, Fernandes, Ferreira, Fialho, Figo, Figuiera, Filho, Fofão, Frana, Galvão, Garção, Gil, Gomes, Gonzaga, Granda, Guajira, Guerra, Guterres, Henriques, Herculano, Ivens, Izquierdo, Jardim, Joje, Julião, Junqueira, Lacerda, Leal, Leitão, Lobato, Lopes, bOOK OF NAMES 103 Lopez, Luiz, Machado, Magalhães, Magellan, Malheiro, Marreca, Marques, Martins, Masarenhas, Medeiros, Medina, Meireles, Melo, Mendes, Meneses, Mesquites, Miguel, Milazar, Montemôr, Morais, Morillo, Moura, Muniz, Nabuco, Neto, Nobre, Nunes, Nunho, Paneira, Parrela, Pascoais, Patricio, Pena, Pereira, Perestrello, Pessao, Pessôa, Peteira, Pinheiro, Pinto, Pires, Porfirio, Prestes, Quita, Ramalho, Ramos, Regalo, Ribeiro, Rios, Rivaldo, Rodrigues, Salazar, Salvador, Sanchez, Saraiva, Serpa, Serrão, Silveira, Soares, Tanse, Tavarez, Teixeira, Tomás, Travada, Trigoso, Tristão, Vargas, Vaz de Camões, Veloso, Verde, Viana, Vicente, Vieira, Xavier, Zemario, Zurara Medieval Portuguese The medieval name pattern was simpler; a personal name plus a surname (byname or, in time, an inherited family name). Over three quarters had a single surname, usually from a place (Joham de Loronha); two-element surnames were usually a patronymic followed by a place derivation (Joham Perez de Loronha). There were many variants of each name (Joham, Johan, Johane, Johanne; Isabell, Isabel, Issebel, Issabell, Issabel). The more frequent personal names differed from modern times. Male Common:Afonso, Alvaro, Fernam, Gomez, Gonçallo, Joham, Lourenço, Martim, Pedro, Rodrigo, Rui, Vaasco Female Common:Aldonça, Biringeira, Branca, Briatiz, Catalina, Costança, Enes, Isabell, Lianor, Maria, Tareija, Violante Russian The Russian nobility started to use inheritable family names in the 14th to 16th centuries, but such names did not become widely used until the 18th century or universal until the 19th. Others used patronymics instead. The suffix ‘-ovich’ meaning ‘son of’, or ‘-ovna’ meaning ‘daughter of’ was added to the father’s personal name to form the patronymic. Oleg’s son and daughter might have been known as Petr Olegovich and Tatyana Olegovna. Even at the start of the 20th century, though, most rural Russians used only their personal names. Modern Russian naming patterns are distinctive. Names have three parts: a personal name, a patronymic, then a family name, for example, Boris Petrovich Ivanov. Patronymics and most family names change their endings with the sex of the bearer, so Boris’s sister Irina would be Irina Petrovna Ivanovna. (Family names of foreign origin do not always change their endings, though.) After marriage a woman takes her husband’s family name, changed for gender. The family name is used only on very formal occasions; the typical form of address is personal name and patronymic: ‘Boris Petrovich’. Friends might be addressed informally by personal name, close friends by a diminutive. The Russians have many pet forms of given names, some formed by adding an ending to Male Personal Names part of the original name, but many quite different. Ivan gives rise to Vanya; Aleksandr or Aleksandra to Sasha; Nataliya to Natasha; Avdotya to Dunya or Dunyasha, and so on. The Russian forms of address under communism, ‘comrade’ (tovarisch) and ‘citizen’, are only used now by die-hard octogenarian apparatchiks. Instead, the usual forms of address are ‘man’, ‘woman’, ‘young man’, or ‘girl’. Pronunciation Russian pronunciation is easy if you’ve heard it spoken: both guttural and nasal, and remember to roll your ‘r’s. There is an extra /y/ sound before some vowels, as in the British ‘new’ .‘nyoo’, not the American ‘noo’. The /a/, /o/, and /e/ are short, and the /u/ is always long, as in ‘moon’. The /i/ can be short, as in ‘pin’ or a long /ee/ sound. The /y/ is the usual consonant, as in ‘yak’, except at the end, where it is a long /ee/ sound, and is interchangeable with /i/. The /g/ is hard. The /x/ and /ks/ are interchangeable, so Alexandr is the same as Aleksandr or Alexander. Written vowel omissions (as in Petr or Dmitri) show that the vowel is weak and near-swallowed when spoken. Examples: ‘Alexandr’is pronounced ah-lyek-Sahndhrr, Igor is Ee.gohrr, ‘Yevgeniy’is yev-Gye-neey, ‘Nataliya’is nah-Tah-lyah, Raisa is rrah-Ee-sah, Svetlana is svyet-Lah-nah, and so on. Common:Aleksandr,Alexei, Andrei, Boris, Denis, Dimitri, Evgeni, Georgiy, Igor, Ivan, Lev, Maxim, Mikhail, Nikolai, Oleg, Sergei, Vasili, Vladimir,Vladislav,Yuri Some diminutives:Alexei (Alyosha, Alyusha, Lyosha), Ivan (Vanya, Vanechka, Vaniusha), Nikolai (Kolya, Nikola, Mikola, Nikolasha, Nikolenka), Sergei (Seryozha, Seryoga), Vladislav (Vlad, Vladik, Slava) Standard: Adam,Adrian,Afanasi,Agafon, Akim,Aldokim, Aleksandr,Alexei, Anan,Anatoli, Andrei,Anikei, Anisim, Anton,Arefei, Arkady,Arkhip, Arseni, Artem, Artur,Artyom, Avdei, Averiy, Bogdan, Boris, Bronislav, Danya, David, Demian, Denis, Desya, Dimitri, Dmitri, Dominik, Dorofei, Efrem, Eleferii, Emelian, Eremei, Ermolai, Evdokim, Evgeni, Fedosei, Fedot, Fedul, Feliks, Filat, Filimon, Filipp, Fotei, Fyodor, Gaspar, Gavril, Gennadi, Georgiy, Gleb, Gordei, Grigori, Ignat, Igor, Ilarion, Ilya, Innokentiy, Iosif, Ippolit, Irinei, Ivan, Karl, Kazimir, Kirill, Kliment, Kondratii, Konstantin, Kuprian, Kuzma, Laktion, Lavro, Lazar, Leon, Leonid, Lev, Luka, Lukian, Makar, Mark, Martin, Matvei, Maxim, Maximilian, Mikhail, Miron, Miroslav, Mitrofan, Modest, Moisei, Mstislav, Naum, Nazarii, Nestor, Nikifor, Nikita, Nikolai, Oleg, Onisim, Onufrii, Osip, Panfil, Pankrati, Pavel, Peter, Petr, Porfiry, Prokofy, Pyotr, Radimir, Radko, Radoslav, Rodion, Roman, Rurik, Ruslan, Rustam, Samuil, Saveli, Selivan, Semeon, Semyon, Sergei, Sevastian, Sofon, Spiridon, Stanimir, Stanislav, Stepan, Svyatoslav, Tadei, Terentii, Timofei, Tomas, Trofim, Tsesar, Ulian, Ustin, Vadim, Valentin, Valeri, Varfolomei, Vasili, Vassily, Venedikt, Venyamin, Viktor,Vitali, Vladimir, Vladislav, Vlas, Vsevolod, Vyacheslav,Yakim, Yakov, Yaroslav, Yegor, Yevgeniy, Yosef, Yuri, Zakhar, Zavid, Zinovii Female Personal Names Common: Alexandra, Alina, Anya, Ekaterina, Elena, Galina, Irina, Larisa, Lyudmila, Nadezhda, Natalya, Nina, Olga, Raisa, Sonya, Svetlana, Tamara, Tatyana, Valentina, Vera Some diminutives:Alexandra (Sasha, Shura, Sashenka, Shurochka), Ekaterina (Katya, Katyusha, Katenka), Lyudmila (Lyuda, Lyusa, Mila, Lyudochka), Nadezhda (Nadya, Nadyusha, Nadechka), Valentina (Valya, Valechka, Valyusha) Standard: Agafia,Agafya, Agata, Aglaya, Agnessa, Agrafena, Aksinya, Akulina, Aleksandra, Aleksandrina, Alina, Alisa, Alona, Alyona, Anastasia, Anfisa, Ania, Anisia, Anna, Anouska, Antonina, Anya, Anzhelika, Arina, Arisha, Asya, Avdotya, Bella, Bronislava, Daria, Diana, Dina, Dominika, Dunya, Efimia, Efrosinia, Ekaterina, Elena, Elizaveta, Eva, Evdokiya, Evgenia, Fedosia, Fekla, Feodora, Fevronia, Filipa, Gala, Galina, Georgina, Grusha, Inessa, Inna, Ioanna, Irina, Isidora, Karina, Katya, Kira, Klara, Klavdiya, Kristina, Kseniya, Lara, Larisa, Larissa, Lena, Lidia, Liliya, Liubov, Lizaveta, Ludmila, Lukeria, Lyuba, Lyubov, Lyudmila, Malania, Mara, Margarita, Maria, Marina, Marya, Mavra, Mikhaila, Milena, Miroslava, Nadezhda, Nastasya, Nataliya, Nessia, Nina, Nyura, Olena, Olga, Orina, Oxana, Pelageya, Polina, Praskovia, Raina, Raisa, Rakhila, Raya, Roksana, Roza, Rozaliya, Rufina, Selina, Serafima, Sofiya, Sonya, Stanislava, Stepanida, Svetlana, Tamara, Tatyana, Tekla, Uliana, Ustinya, Valentina, Valeriya, Varvara, Varya, Vasilisa, Vera, Veronika, Vladimira, Vladislava, Vonda, Yaromira, Yaroslava, Yekaterina, Yelena, Yelizaveta, Yevgeniya, Yulia, Yuliana, Zhenya, Zina, Zinaida, Zinovia, Zoya Patronymics To create a patronymic, take the personal name for the father and add the suffix ‘-ovich’for a male, or ‘-ovna’ for a female. This is usually correct, and most names follow the pattern: Igor gives Igorovich or Igorovna, and so on. After soft consonants, the suffixes can change to ‘-evich’ or ‘-evna’, and sometimes ‘y’s or extra vowels are dropped - the ending can get as short as ‘-ich’. Some names showing such changes follow (in ‘father son daughter’ triplets): Arseni Arsenovich Arsenovna, Danya Danovich Danovna, Dimitri Dimitrovich Dimitrovna, Georgi Georgovich Georgovna, Ilya Ilyich Ilyovna (or Ilich Ilovna), Josef Josevich Josevovna, Luka Lukovich Lukovna, Nikolai Nikolaevich Nikolaevna, Sergei Sergeich Sergeiovna, Yevgeni Yevgenovich Yevgenovna. Family Names Note that the list of surnames is in masculine form, and only apply to males as written. To apply the names to females, use feminine endings. In most cases, simply add ‘-a’, but -sky or -ski changes to -skaya. For example, the male Yudin, Pavlov, and Bazilevsky change to female Yudina, Pavlova, and Bazilevskaya. Common: Egorov, Fedorov, Grigorev, Ivanov, Kozlov, Kyznetsov, Lebedev, Mikhailov, Morozov, Nikolaev, Pavlov, Petrov, Popov, Semenov, Smirnov, Sokolov, Stepanov, Vasilev, Volkv,Yakovlev Standard: Abramtsov,Akimov, Aksenov,Aleev, Aleksandrov, Alekseev,Alyoshka, Andreev,Andreyev, Andropov,Anisimov, Anokhin, Arkhipov, Bakhmetev, Balakirev, Baranov, Baranova, Barishnikov, Batukhtina, Bazilevsky, Beketov, Belanov, Belousov, Belov, Belyaev, Belyakov, Beregovoi, Berzin, Bezuhov, Biryukov, Bogdanov, Boricov, Borisenko, Borshevsky, Buinovsky, Bukharin, Bykov, Charkov, Chashnikov, Chernienko, Chernitsky, Chernov, Chernyshev, Chicherin, Chistyakov, Danilov, Dashkov, Demidov, Denisov, Derevenko, Dmitriev, Dolohov, Dostoevsky, Dubrovskiy, Duchovny, Efimov, Egorov, Erikeev, Ermakov, Evdokimov, Fedorov, Fedorova, Fetyukov, Filatov, Filimonov, Filipov, Filippov, Fomin, Frolov, Gagarin, Ganelin, Gerasimov, Gogunov, Golitsin, Golubev, Gopchik, Gorbachev, Goryachev, Grigorev, Grigoriev, Grishkuv, Gromov, Gromyko, Ignatev, Ignatiev, Ilin, Iltchenko, Isleniev, Ivanov, Izedinov, Jakov, Kalashnikov, Kapustin, Karin, Karpov, Katzev, Khokhlov, Khromoi, Khvostov, Kiselev, Klevshin, Klimov, Kochetkov, Kolesnikov, Kolokoltsov, Koptev, Koslov, Kostiurin, Kovalenko, Kovalev, Kozlov, Krylov, Kubarev, Kulik, Kupchenko, Kuzmin, Kuznetsova, Kuzyomin, Kyznetsov, Laptev, Larionov, Lasovskaya, Lazarev, Lebedev, Lebedyenko, Leonov, Lepechin, Lermontov, Litvinov, Lobachev, Lobanov, Loginov, Lukanov, Lukin, Lukyanov, Mahayev, Maikov, Makarov, Markov, Maslov, Matiushkin, Medvedev, Melnikov, Mendeleev, Merkulov, Mikhailov, Mikulin, Mironov, Mizirov, Molodin, Molotov, Morchenko, Morozov, Nakhimov, Naumov, Nazarov, Nesterov, Nikanov, Nikitin, Nikolaev, Novakovsky, Novikov, Obolensky, Omelchenko, Orlov, Osipov, Ostrogorsky, Ovcharenko, Ovinko, Panin, Pankratev, Panov, Panteleyev, Pasternak, Pasunin, Pavlov, Petrenko, Petrov, Podgorni, Polyakov, Ponomarev, Popov, Potemkin, Prerovsky, Prokhorov, Pushkin, Putilov, Putin, Rachmanov, Ratkov, Razumovsky, Revnik, Rokossovsky, Ronzhin, Rudakov, Rumiantsev, Sadykov, Salamov, Samarin, Satyev, Savelev, Savin, Scherbakov, Schlensky, Seleznyov, Semenov, Sevruk, Shcherbakov, Sherikov, Shirkov, Shukhov, Simonov, Skvortsov, Smirnov, Sokolov, Solzhenitsin, Sorokin, Spiridonov, Stepanov, Strogonov, Suvorov, Sviridov, Talietzin, Tarasov, Tatishchev, Tchechenko, Teplov, Tikhomirov, Tikhonov, Timofeev, Titov, Topolev, Tretiakov,Turov, Tyurin, Ukhtomskoy, Ulyanov, Ushakov, Vasilev, Vasiliev, Vdovushkin, Verkhovsky,Vezirov,Viazemsky, Vladykin, Vlasov,Volkovoi, Volkv,Volodimerov,Volsky,Vorobev,Voronin, Voronov,Yablokov, Yakovlev, Yavlinsky, Yazykov,Yudin, Yumashev,Yuriev, Zaitsev, Zajaczek, Zakharov, Zbruev, Zhadovsky, Zharov, Zhdanov, Zhukov, Zhuravlev, Zinoviev, Zmiev, Zotov, Zubov Medieval Russian Prior to the 10th century in Russia, a personal name alone would A typical selection of names has been provided, including some have been used. Personal names were usually biblical or old Russian survivals (which were like nicknames - Shuba meant Orthodox saints’ names. Some older Russian names still survived ‘fur coat’ and so on). There were many variant spellings of each in medieval times, from steppes tribes and the Norse. (Christian-name; a few are included. In particular, ‘o’could be used in place ity had been adopted by the 9th century; Vikings made it to of ‘a’(as in Oleksandr and Aleksandr, or Olena and Alena). Russia too.) Bynames were used, if necessary; patronymics were the most popular. They varied in form, but the modern type was not uncommon. Male Personal Names Common: Fedor, Foma, Georgii, Grigorii, Iakov, Ivan, Mixail, Oleg, Stepan, Vasilii Standard:Aleksandr,Aleksei, Andrei, Anton, Bolda, Boris, Boroda, Buiak, Chernek, Chort, Davyd, Dmitrii, Domaslav, Domazhir, Drozd, Fedor, Filofei, Foma, Georgii, Grechin, Gridia, Grigorii, Guba, Iakov, Iakun, Iaroslav, Iev, Ignatii, Iosif, Iov, Ivan, Kisel, Kozel, Kriv, Kuritsa, Kuzima, Maksim, Mal, Malina, Matfei, Mestislav, Mikhail, Mil, Miloslav, Miroslav, Mixail, Nezhek, Nikita, Oleg, Orekh, Pavel, Prokopii, Radoslav, Sbyslav, Semeon, Shchuka, Shuba, Sidor, Sobol, Stanimir, Stepan, Sviatoslav, Tretiak, Tvorimir, Vasilii, Viacheslav, Vladimir, Voislav, Volchok, Volotok, Vsevolod, Zaiats, Zavid, Zaxarii, Zhiroslav, Zhiznobud, Zub Female Personal Names Common:Anastasiia, Domna, Ekaterina, Fetiniia, Iriniia, Kseniia, Mariia, Marina, Nedelika, Tatiana Standard:Afimiia,Akilina, Akulina, Alena, Anastasiia,Anna,Antonidka, Avdotiitsa, Bezubaia, Chiudka, Dedenia, Deretka, Dominika, Domna, Ekaterina, Elizaveta, Euprakseia, Evdokeia, Evdokiia, Evdokseia, Evfrosiniia, Fedorka, Fekla, Feodosiia, Fetiniia, Fevroniia, Gostiata, Iarina, Iriniia, Iulianiia, Katerina, Katerinka, Khristina, Kosenila, Kseniia, Makrina, Maremiiana, Marfa, Mariia, Marina, Melaniia, Milka, Miropiia, Nedelika, Negoshka, Nezhka, Ogrofena, Olena, Pelageia, Peredeslava, Proskurniana, Sapozhnika, Sofiia, Tanka, Tatiana, Uliiana, Varvara Spanish Many Spanish personal names derive from the names of saints, and some come from festivals. Although some festival names (Anunciación, Purificación, Natividad, Encarnación, and so on) can be used for both sexes, they are more likely to be used by females, and are so listed here. As in English, Spanish diminutive endings for names can be added casually, or sometimes pet forms can become names in their own right. The masculine diminutives are -ito and -ico and the feminine is -ita. The pattern is usually one or more personal names followed by a compound surname formed of two family names: the father’s family name then the mother’s family name, usually linked by ‘y’ (pronounced /ee/ and meaning ‘and’). For example, if Manuel López y Ramírez marries María Cruz y Navarro, their son José would be known as José López y Cruz (taking the first family name from each parent). López is the family name Manuel got from his father and Cruz is the family name María got from her father. The ‘y’ may be dropped nowadays, but does help avoid BOOK OF NAMES 106 confusion! A woman does not change her name when she marries, but she can, and often does, add her husband’s name, using ‘de’(meaning ‘of’). If José López y Cruz marries Teresa Alvarez y García, his wife might call herself Teresa Alvarez y García de López. The Spanish nobility often used the same prefix ‘de’ to indicate a place, but the use of these prefixes in family names is quite distinct. Families of proud lineage may incorporate multiple compound surnames in each part of the surname, leading to long and complex names. On the other hand, outside Spain, for instance in the U.S., the pattern of using only the father’s family name might be used, or the two family names might be hyphenated into a single surname. A man is addressed as Señor. An unmarried woman is addressed as Señorita, and a married one as Señora (even if she has been divorced or widowed). Pronunciation ee/ sound, and /o/ and /u/ are also long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ In Spanish the stress usually falls on the penultimate syllable respectively. The /c/ is hard, except before /e/ or /i/. The /g/ is unless the word ends in a consonant other than /n/ or /s/, in hard, except before /e/ or /i/, where it is a hard /h/, as /j/ always which case it is on the last syllable. An accented vowel indicates is, but /h/ itself is silent. The /ll/ sounds like /ly/, and the /ñ/ the stressed syllable of a word. The /a/ is short, as in ‘cat’. The / sounds like /ny/. So ‘Juanita’ is hwah-Nee-tah, ‘Íñigo’ is Ee.e/ rhymes with ‘hey’ even when it ends a word. The /i/ is a long / nyee-goh, ‘Hermina’ is er-Mee-nah, and so on. Male Personal Names Common:Alfonso, António, Bernardo, Carlos, Diego, Eduardo, Elí, Felipe, Francisco, José, Juan, Luis, Manuel, Miguel, Pablo, Pedro, Pépé, Ramón, Raúl, Tomás Standard:Adán, Adolfo, Adrián, Agustín, Alberto, Alejandro, Alejo, Alfonso, Alfredo,Aloisio, Alonso, Álvaro, Amado,Amador, Amancio, Ambrosio, Andrés, Angel, Anier,António, Aquiles, Arcadio, Ariando, Ariel, Arnaldo, Arsenio, Ascencio, Atilano, Aurelio, Baldovino, Baltazar, Bartolemé, Bartolo, Basílio, Bautista, Beltrán, Benedito, Benigno, Benito, Benjamin, Bernal, Bernardito, Bernardo, Blasco, Calisto, Candido, Carlito, Carlos, Ceandro, Celestino, Ciriaco, Claudio, Consuelo, Cornelio, Cosme, Cristiano, Cristóbal, Dalmacio, Dámaso, Damián, Danilo, Demetrio, Diego, Dionicio, Dionisio, Dolfos, Domingo, Donato, Eduardo, Efraín, Eladio, Elí, Elisio, Emeterio, Emiliano, Enrique, Ernesto, Esteban, Eugenio, Eustacio, Evaristo, Fabián, Fabio, Fabricio, Feliciano, Felipe, Félix, Fermin, Fernán, Fernando, Fidel, Florencio, Francisco, Frasquito, Gabriel, Galsino, Gaspar, Geofredo, Gervasio, Ginés, Giullen, Gómez, Gonzalo, Gregorio, Gualberto, Guillermo, Gutierre, Héctor, Hermengildo, Hernán, Hernando, Hipolito, Horacio, Iago, Ignacio, Ildefonso, Ildephonso, Illán, Íñigo, Inocencio, Irenio, Isias, Isidoro, Jacinto, Jago, Jaime, Javier, Jeronimo, Joaquín, Jordi, Jorge, José, Josélito, Josué, Juan, Juanito, Justo, Leandro, Leocadio, Leonel, Leopoldo, Lope, Lorenzo, Lucás, Luis, Macario, Mancio, Manolito, Manolo, Manuel, Marcelito, Marcello, Marco, Mariano, Martín, Matias, Mauricio, Medardo, Melchior, Miguel, Modesto, Moníco, Narcisso, Nazario, Nicanor, Nicasio, Nicodemo, Orlino, Pablo, Pancho, Pánfilo, Paquito, Pascual, Pasqual, Pastor, Pedro, Pelayo, Pépé, Pepillo, Pepito, Pero, Pio, Pirmin, Ponciono, Primitivo, Rafael, Raimundo, Rainerio, Ramiro, Ramón, Raúl, Refugio, Reynaldo, Rito, Roberto, Rodrigo, Rogelio, Rosario, Rosendo, Rufino, Ruy, Salomon, Salomone, Salvador, Sancho, Sanson, Sebastián, Serafín, Sergi, Sergio, Severino, Silvestre, Simón, Tadeo, Teobaldo, Teodosio, Timeteo, Tirso, Tomás, Ubaldo, Ulises, Urbano, Valentín, Vasco, Venceslás, Vicente, Victoriano, Vincente, Vittorrio, Ximénez, Yáñes Female Personal Names Common:Ana, Bonita, Carmena, Dolores, Elena, Francisca, Guadalupe, Inéz, Isabella, Juanita, Juliana, Luz, Manuela, Margarita, María, Patricia, Petra, Ramona, Rosa, Teresa Standard:Adelita, Águeda, Aldonza, Alejandra, Alejandrina, Alma,Almalia, Amata,Amparo,Ana, Andrea,Angélica, Angelita, Angosto, Angustia, Aniceta, Anita, Anunciación, Anunciata, Araceli, Ásela,Assunta, Azucena, Barbara, Beatriz, Belén, Belia, Belicia, Benedicta, Benita, Bernadina, Blanca, Bonita, Brigida, Calida, Camila, Candela, Caridad, Carla, Carlita, Carlotta, Carmela, Carmelita, Carmella, Carmena, Carmencita, Casilda, Catalina, Cecilla, Chabela, Charita, Charo, Chela, Chila, Chofi, Clarisa, Concepción, Concetta, Concha, Conchita, Constanza, Consuela, Corazón, Cristina, Crucita, Damita, Delfina, Delores, Digna, Dolores, Dorotea, Dulcinea, Elena, Eliana, Elisa, Elvira, Encarnación, Engracia, Enriqueta, Erlinda, Esmeralda, Esmerelda, Esperanza, Estefanía, Estrella, Eufemia, Eugenia, Eulalia, Eva, Evangelina, Evita, Feliciana, Felicidad, Francisca, Frasquita, Genoveva, Gianina, Giralda, Gracia, Graciana, Graciela, Guadalupe, Guilla, Herlinda, Hermenia, Hermina, Hilaria, Huera, Idoya, Imelda, Inés, Inéz, Isabel, Isabella, Ismelda, Isola, Jacinta, Joana, Jorgina, Juana, Juanita, Juliana, Laura, Leocadia, Leonora, Ligia, Lilia, Liseta, Lolita, Luce-Marina, Lucía, Lucita, Lucretia, Luisa, Lupe, Luz, Magdalena, Maita, Manolita, Manuela, Marcela, Marcelina, Margarita, Maria, Mariana, Maribel, Marieta, Marina, Mariquita, Marita, Marta, Martina, Martita, Maruja, Matilde, Melchora, Melosa, Mencía, Mercedes, Milagros, Misia, Monica, Nati, Natividad, Nazaret, Nicolasa, Nina, Nita, Nuela, Nunia, Ofelia, Paca, Paloma, Pancha, Pascuala, Patricia, Paz, Pepa, Pepita, Perla, Perlita, Petra, Presentación, Purificación, Purita, Rafaela, Raimunda, Ramona, Raquel, Reina, Remedios, Renata, Resurección, Ria, Ricarda, Rita, Rocío, Romana, Rosa, Rosalinda, Rosario, Rosita, Salomé, Santa, Sarita, Saritia, Sebastiana, Serafina, Sofía, Sol, Solana, Soledad, Suela, Suelo, Sunción, Teodora, Teodosia, Teresa, Teresita, Theresia, Tiana, Trinidad, Veronica, Victorina, Virida,Vitoria, Xaviera, Ximena, Xiomara,Ynés,Ynéz, Zahira, Zita Family Names Common:Alonso,Alvarez, Diaz, Fernandez, García, Gomez, Gonzalez, Hernandez, Jimenez, Lopez, Martin, Martinez, Moreno, Munoz, Navarro, Perez, Rodriguez, Romero, Ruiz, Sanchez Standard:Abelló, Abreu, Acero, Acevedo, Acheros, Acosta, Acuña, Adalid, Adán, Aguado, Agudo, Aguilar,Aguilera, Aguirre, Aimar, Alargón, Albiñana, Alcalde, Alcántara, Alcaraz, Alfonzo, Alicante, Almario,Almodóvar,Alonso, Altamira,Alvarado, Alvarez, Amarilla, Amorós, Andrade, Andres, Andujar, Aquino, Aragón, Aragonés, Araujo, Arce, Argenté, Arias, Arredondo, Arroyo, Asturias, Avila, Ayala, Azevedo, Babiano, Báez, Balboa, Baliño, Balmez, Balvas, Baquero, Barceló, Barrera, Barrios, Barron, Barros, Báscones, Bautista, Becerra, Bécquer, Bello, Bellver, Beltran, Benavente, Benavidez, Benitez, Benito, Bernal, Betzanos, Bilbao, Blancas, Blanco, Blasco, Blazquez, Borja, Bravo, Briceño, Bueno, Bugallo, Burgoa, Caballer, Caballero, Cabañas, Cabello, Cabezas, Cabrera, Cabrero, Caicedo, Calderón, Calera, Callejo, Calomarde, Calvo, Camacho, Cámara, Campos, Camposorio, Canalejas, Canales, Cañizares, Caño, Canovas, Cantu, Carballo, Cardenas, Carmona, Carrasco, Carreño, Carrera, Carrillo, Carvajal, Casas, Castaneda, Castaños, Castellanos, Castelló, Castillo, Castro, Cavia, Cerro, Cervantes, Cerviño, Céspedes, Chavarri, Chávez, Cisneros, Colon, Contreras, Cordoba, Coronel, Correa, Cortazar, Cortés, Cortez, Crespo, Crevea, Cruz, Cubría, Cuevas, Davila, de la Cruz, de la Rosa, de los Santos, Delgado, Diamante, Díaz, Diez, Dominguez, Duarte, Dueñas, Durán, Echegaray, Enriquez, Ercilla, Escalera, Escalona, Escobal, Escobar, Escrivá, Escudero, España, Esparza, Espinel, Espínola, Espinosa, Espinoza, Esquivel, Estevez, Estrada, Fábregas, Fabrés, Fajardo, Falcó, Falcón, Falla, Faria, Fariñas, Farré, Farrés, Fernández, Ferré, Ferrer, Ferrero, Figueroa, Flores, Franco, Fuentes, Gali, Galíndez, Galindo, Gallardo, Gállego, Gallegos, Galvan, Games, Garay, García, Garrido, Garza, Gijón, Gil, Gimenez, Gomara, Gómez, Góngora, González, Goya, Gracia, Grande, Guerra, Guerrero, Guevara, Gutiérrez, Guzmán, Hernández, Herranz, Herrera, Herrero, Hidalgo, Huerta, Hurtado, Ibañez, Ibarra, Iglesias, Iñiguez, Isla, Iturralde, Izquierdo, Jáuregui, Jerez, Jiménez, Jovellanos, Jovellar, Juárez, Labadía, Lafuente, Laguia, Lainez, Lamar, Lanza, Lara, Leal, León, Llanos, Llorente, Lopez, Lorenzo, Lozano, Lucas, Lucientes, Luna, Machado, Macias, Madera, Madrazo, Maldonado, Mancha, Manrique, Marcos, Marin, Maroto, Márquez, Marrero, Marroquin, Martin, Martínez, Mata, Medina, Medrano, Mejia, Meléndez, Melzi, Mena, Méndez, Mendoza, Menéndez, Mercado, Merida, Merino, Mesa, Mesonero, Mina, Miralles, Miranda, Miró, Mola, Molina, Montalván, Montalvo, Montenegro, Montero, Montes, Montoya, Mora, Moragas, Morales, Moran, Moratín, Moreno, Moreto, Morillo, Moya, Moyano, Muniz, Muñoz, Munuera, Murillo, Nadal, Narvaez, Navarro, Nieto, Niño, Noceda, Nuñez, Obaldia, Ochoa, Olid, Olivares, Olivas, Olmedo, Oñate, Orbe, Ordoñes, Ornosa, Oropeza, Orozco, Ortega, Ortiz, Ovando, Oviedo, Pacheco, Padilla, Paesa, Pagán, Paisano, Palacios, Palafox, Palau, Palencia, Palenzuela, Pallás, Palma, Palmas, Pardo, Pareja, Pasarón, Pascual, Pasquale, Pastor, Pavón, Pedrero, Pelayo, Pena, Peñaranda, Pereda, Pereira, Perelló, Pérez, Pineda, Pinzón, Pizarro, Plana, Ponce, Portillo, Prado, Prieto, Primo, Quesada, Quevedo, Quinones, Quintana, Quintero, Quiroga, Ramíl, Ramírez, Ramón, Ramos, Rangel, Redondo, Rey, Reyes, Reyna, Riba, Ribas, Ribera, Rico, Riego, Río, Rios, Riva, Rivas, Rivera, Riveros, Robles, Rocha, Rodriguez, Roelas, Rojas, Roman, Romanos, Romero, Rosado, Rosales, Rosario, Rosas, Royo, Rubio, Ruiz, Saavedra, Sacristán, Sáenz, Saez, Salas, Salazar, Salcedo, Salgado, Salinas, Salvador, Sanchez, Sandoval, Santana, Santiago, Santos, Sanz, Segarra, Segovia, Serra, Serrano, Sierra, Silva, Silvela, Soler, Solís, Sorolla, Sosa, Soto, Suárez, Taberné, Tamajón, Tamayo, Tejada, Téllez, Terraza, Tomé, Torres, Trevino, Trujillo, Tuero, Urbina, Ursua, Valcárcel, Valderrama, Valdés, Valdez, Valencia, Valenzuela, Valiente, Valle, Vallejo, Valverde, Vargas, Vasquez, Vázquez, Vega, Vela, Velasco, Velazquez, Vélez, Verduras, Verona, Vicente, Vidal, Vila, Villa, Villanueva, Villareal, Villegas, Viñas, Vivar,Xamar, Xeres, Yabar,Yáñez,Yriarte, Zamora, Zárate, Zavala, Zepeda, Zorrilla, Zumárraga, Zuñiga, Zurita Medieval Spanish Spain was not uniform in medieval times. After reconquest of the The medieval name pattern was simpler; a personal name plus a southern regions from the Moors, there were various kingdoms byname if needed, usually a patronymic or place-name with different names or name variants prevalent, although many derivative. Compound names (Bernat Aguiló and the like) were names were used across Spain. Navarre in the north of the used in Catalonia in eastern Aragon on occasion. The country (and Gascony over the border in France) largely spoke patronymic was the father’s name, slightly altered, with an ‘-ez’ Basque, and the rest (Castille and Aragon) spoke Spanish in suffix (usually ‘-iz’for Basque). Ramiro’s son might be known as various dialects. Spelling was as usual idiosyncratic; only a few Miró Ramirez, Velazquo’s daughter as Andregoto Velázquez. variants have been selected. Place-name derivatives used ‘de’meaning ‘of’or ‘from’before the place, as in de Corella or d’Ors. Male Personal Names Common:Alonso, Diego, Ferando, Francisco, Gonçalo, Guillem, Juan, Martin, Pedro, Rodrigo Spanish: Adulfo, Aguiló, Agustin, Alexandre, Alfonso, Alonso, Alvar, Andreu, Anselmo, Ansuro, Antón, Arias, Arnao, Auderico, Baltasar, Bartolome, Bello, Beltrán, Bernat, Bertran, Cabreta, Carlos, Cervari, Cristoval, Diego, Domingo, Ederoño, Enrique, Ermegildo, Escobar, Estevan, Fadrique, Fagildo, Feliu, Ferando, Folc, Francisco, Froila, Galindo, Garçia, Gelmiro, Genís, Gil, Gilabert, Gomes, Guera, Guifré, Guillem, Gutierre, Hug, Iñigo, Jacinto, Jaume, Joan, Joaquím, Jordi, Jorge, Josep, Juan, Julian, Just, Lorenç, Luys, Manuel, Marcúç, Martin, Menendo, Miguel, Miró, Muño, Narcís, Nunyo, Oleguer, Oliba, Ordoño, Osmundo, Osoro, Pau, Pedro, Pere, Poc, Ponç, Ramiro, Ramon, Roderigo, Rodrigo, Ruy, Sabastian, Salvadór, Sunifré, Telo, Tomás, Tristán, Vedillo, Vermudo, Viçente, Vimaro,Vistruario Basque:Atila, Ato, Azenar,Aznaro, Belazo, Braulio, Centolle, Chorso, Didaco, Eukeni, Ezterio, Fernán, Fortún, Galindo, Garzéa, Gazo, Giderio, Gonçalo, Herri, Iñaki, Iñigo, Jimeno, Lope, Lugo, Mome, Monio, Munnico, Nunas, Oriollus, Ortio, Otso, Pére, Raimundo, Ramiro, Sancho, Sidoc, Taio, Tomas, Velazquo, Vigala, Vincomal Female Personal Names Common: Beatriz, Catalina, Francisca, Iñes, Isabel, Juana, Leonor, María, Onneca, Urraca Spanish: Agata, Aldonça, Aldonza, Almodis, Angel, Antonia, Aurembiaix, Beatriz, Berenguaria, Blanca, Castellana, Catalina, Caterina, Clara, Constança, Cristina, Crus, Elena, Elicsenda, Elionor, Elo, Enderquina, Engraçia, Ermengarda, Estefania, Eugeni, Eulàlia, Eva, Felipa, Francisca, Fronilde, Geronima, Graçia, Gregoria, Güelfa, Guiomar, Guntroda, Ildaria, Iñes, Isabel, Jimena, Joana, Juana, Leonor, Lupaa, Luzia, Madelena, Mafalda, Manuela, Margarida, Mari, María, Marina, Mata, Mayor, Mencia, Olalla, Pascuala, Paterna, Petronilla, Rois, Sança, Serena, Sibilla, Tegrida, Teresa, Violante Basque: Acibella, Ana, Andregoto, Assona, Bella, Blanche, Blasquita, Brisca, Egeria, Elvira, Estefania, Faquilo, Fausta, Galga, Gayla, Iñiga, Jimena, Magelina, María, Munia, Nina, Onecha, Onneca, Quisilo, Sancha, Sanza, Teresa, Toda, Tota, Urraca Arabic Arabic names have entered many lands through historical conquest or religious influence (leading to variations in spelling and usage). Arabic names are nearly all vocabulary items, and language and names have changed little over the centuries - in fact the whole culture has remained nearly unaltered since medieval times. There are sets of words typically used for one sex or the other (noble beasts and heroism for males; flowers and jewels for females), but some (piety, wisdom) are used for both. Arabic names can seem complex at first glance. Inheritable family names are rare, and the particular form a person uses may change with the situation, so patterns can escape the casual listener. Names can be broken down into several standard elements, though. Generally a personal name is followed by one or more of the identifiers that became surnames in the West: a patronymic, sobriquet, occupation, or location. An honorific based on one’s relations may precede the personal name, or this or another element can replace it altogether. A personal name is usual, such as Ibrahim or Aziza. It is most commonly followed by a patronymic: ‘ibn’ or ‘bin’ (‘wald’ or ‘wad’amongst the Bedouin) meaning ‘son of’, or ‘ibnat’or ‘bint’ meaning ‘daughter of’, precede the father’s personal name. For instance, Hassan’s son and daughter might be known as Ibrahim ibn Hassan and Aziza bint Hassan; an only son might just be known as ibn Hassan. This can be extended to a whole lineage, although it usually stops at the grandfather (Ibrahim ibn Hassan ibn Sayid). Modern city-dwelling Arabs may take the patronymic as read, so Rashid ibn Daud might just be known as Rashid Daud. A possible cognomen or nickname can follow, either religious, or denoting character traits (earned or desired) or physical appearance. For instance, Ibrahim Abd-al-Jaami would be Ibrahim, servant of the Gatherer; Aziza el-Hiri would be Aziza the wildcat; Abbas al-Jahiz would be Abbas the goggle-eyed. Occupational names are much the same: Hassan al-Rumat is Hassan the archer, and so on. Male Personal Names Placename identifiers, which can refer to tribes as well, are formed by adding the male -i or female -iya to the original word. Zarqaa al-Samarqandiya would be Zarqaa of Samarkand. These names can be used like inherited family names, as a preferred identifier, in which case both sexes use the masculine form. The honorific applied to parents identifies them by their offspring: ‘abu’means ‘father of’and ‘umm’or ‘umn’means ‘mother of’. Hassan might be called Abu Ibrahim, his wife Zarqaa might be Umn Ibrahim (usually the eldest son’s name is used) or possibly Umn Aziza. Women often used only their personal names plus an honorific, and sometimes dropped the personal name altogether. A name can be formed from any or all of these elements, from a mere epithet, as in ‘Abd-an-Noor’, servant of the Light, to an impressive-sounding screed: Abu Daud Ibrahim ibn Hassan al-Farid ibn Sayid al-Baghdadi (the father of Daud, Ibrahim, the son of Hassan the peerless, the son of Sayid of Baghdad). A simple personal name plus patronymic usually suffices, or a title if that sounds better. In medieval times, many names were of the pattern honorific + personal name + cognomen, as in Abu Badr Rahmat al-Najmi. Pronunciation Arabic pronunciation depends on dialect and location, but the transliterations here should be more or less standard, if imperfect. Some variants are included (Omar and Umar, and so on). The /q/ is a slightly throaty /k/, and the two letters are often interchangeable, as are /j/ and /y/, and /s/ and /z/. Hence the /qu/ is not our /cw/, but /koo/. The /o/ and /u/ are long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ respectively, but closer to each other in some dialects. The /i/ is usually a long /ee/ sound (although not in ‘ibn’, ‘bin’, and so on), and the /a/ is usually long, as in ‘father’. An apostrophe in a word indicates a very slight pause (a glottal stop); gutturals have been ignored. For instance, ‘Kamil’ is not pronounced Camel, but khah-Meel. Some names are spelled out where they were so recorded (Hafiza as Hafeeza, and so on). Only some of the many variants of Mohammed are listed. Compound personal names occur, especially with Ali or Mohammed, sometimes hyphenated, sometimes not: Abbas-Ali, Abu Bakr, Mohammed Ali. The list of bynames are personal names that can also be used as bynames, by prefixing them with al-, as in Abu al-Fahd, Abu the lynx. Common:Abbas, Ali, Farrukh, Hafiz, Hassan, Jafar, Khalid, Malik, Mohammed, Rashid Standard:Aaftab, Abbas,Abu, Ajmal,Akar,Ali, Anjum, Anwaar,Aslam, Attiyah,Ayaz, Ayub, Azamat,Aziz,Azizah, Bahram, Balban, Balj, Barakaat, Barmak, Bashaarat, Behraam, Bilal, Bursuq, Daud, Dharr, Dhu, Durayd, E’jaaz, Faraaz, Faraj, Fathi, Fawzi, Fayiz, Faysal, Firas, Firuz, Fuad, Ghanai’m, Ghiyaath, Hadi, Hajjaj, Halil, Hamdi, Hamzah, Hanbal, Hareef, Haris, Harith, Haroun, Hashim, Hayaan, Hilal, Himyar, Hisham, Hosni, Humam, Hunayn, Husni, Ibrahim, Idrisi, Ihab, Ihsan, Ikraam, Irfaan, Iqbaal, Isa, Ishaq, Iskander, Ismail, Ismat, Jabar, Jalal, Jamal, Jawhar, Jibril, Jubair, Jurdik, Kamal, Kamil, Karaamat, Khalf, Khalid, Khalil, Labid, Lahab, Mahir, Mahmud, Majnun, Makram, Mamduh, Mamoun, Maroun, Masruq, Masud, Mehmet, Miraaj, Mohammed, Mu’aawin, Muhammad, Munsif, Muqbil, Mus’ad, Musa, Musaykah, Mushtaq, Mustafa, Mutawakkil, Muti, Muwas, Muzzammil, Naasir, Naaz, Naazir, Nadir, Nafi, Nasif, Nasim, Nazaam, Nizar, Nuzhat, Omar, Othman, Qaabil, Qaari, Qadama, Qasim, Qudrat, Qutaiba, Qutuz, Ra’uf, Raahat, Raashan, Radwan, Rahmat, Ramadan, Ridwan, Rifaaqat, Ruzzik, Sa’ood, Saabiq, Sabir, Sadaaqat, Safi, Safwan, Said, Sakhr, Salih, Salim, Sarwat, Sayyid, Shafaqat, Shakir, Sharif, Shauk, Shaukat, Sinaan, Suhayl, Taha, Taimur, Talal, Talib, Tammam, Tanweer,Tarafa, Tariq, Tashfin, Taufiq, Thamar, Ubaida, Umar, Uqbar, Uthman, Wafid, Wajaahat, Walid, Waqaar, Wathiq, Yaamin, Yaasir,Yasir, Yazid, Yildirim, Yusri, Yussuf, Zaid, Zaidan, Zauk, Ziryab, Ziyad, Zubair, Zuhair, Zuhoor Bynames: Aaqil, Aasim, Acar,Adib,Afdhal, Ahmad, Ahmed, Akhtar, Alim, Amjad,Anwar, Arqam, Arshad, Asad, Ashraf, Athar, Azim, Baabar, Badr, Bahlol, Bakhtiaar, Bakr, Dalair, Dhaamin, Dilaawar, Faatir, Fahd, Faheem, Fakhri, Farel, Farid, Farrukh, Ghaalib, Ghazi, Habib, Hafiz, Hakim, Hamal, Hammad, Hanif, Hasan, Hassan, Husain, Hussein, Jabir, Jafar, Jamil, Kaazim, Karim, Khurram, Laa’iq, Mahbub, Malik, Mansur, Manzoor, Masoom, Mazhar, Mubarak, Muhsin, Mukhtaar, Munim, Muqaddas, Murshid, Naaji, Naazim, Nabil, Nadim, Najib, Qaa’id, Qaa’im, Rafiq, Rashid, Saalik, Sadaat, Safir, Sajjaad, Salaiman, Samim, Saqr, Shahaab, Shahbaaz, Siddiq, Sulaiman, Taajwar, Taalib, Taqi, Thaaqib, Tufail, Usama, Uwais, Waahib, Wahhaj, Wahid, Wasim, Yaakub, Yazdan, Zaahir, Zakki, Zarif Female Personal Names The list of bynames are personal names that can also be used as bynames, by prefixing them with al-, as in Laila al-Zareena, Laila the golden. Common: Aminah, Ayesha, Basimah, Farah, Fatima, Hayfa, Kamilah, Malikah, Salma, Yasmin Standard: Aatifa, Abdah, Abla, Afa’f, Afra, Afzaa, Ahlaam, Ara, Atikah, Azada, Azzah, Badoura, Bahaar, Bahiyya, Bahjat, Bakht, Banah, Banujah, Basimah, Bilqis, Buthayna, Dahah, Daifa, Dananir, Duqaq, Fadila, Fakhriyya, Famida, Farah, Fardoos, Fatima, Fatimah, Fatma, Fawz, Ghaniyah, Ghaythah, Haala, Hadil, Hafiza, Hanaa, Harithah, Hawwa, Hifni, Hind, Hinda, Hinnaa, Huda, Huma’i, Ibtesam, Ihtizaz, Ilham, Ilm, Inan, Jaida, Javairia, Jawaahir, Jimira, Khadija, Khadijah, Khazima, Laila, Latifa, Layla, Lubna, Lutfiyya, Maahjabin, Maahpaara, Mahsa, Mahtaab, Maimoune, Maimunah, Malak, Malikah, Manhalah, Mariyah, Maryam, Maysun, Mellilah, Muhayya, Munya, Naadhira, Naaheed, Nadra, Nadrah, Naima, Najat, Nasiha, Ni’mat, Nighat, Nu’m, Nur, Qabihah, Qabul, Qamra, Qaribah, Raahil, Rabab, Raym, Rayya, Rida, Ridhwaana, Ruqayya, Ruqayyah, Rusa, Sa’eeda, Saajida, Saaliha, Saduf, Safi, Safia, Safwah, Saham, Sajah, Sakan, Salamah, Samsi, Saniyya, Sara, Sarab, Sehar, Selima, Semeeah, Shahar, Shahira, Shahrazad, Shahrizad, Shajar, Sharawi, Sharifa, Shifa, Shiklah, Shirin, Su’ad, Sukaynah, Sulma, Sumnah, Surayya, Tahiyya, Tahzeeb, Tarifa, Tarub, Taskeen, Taslim, Thanaa, Tharwat, Ulayyah, Umamah, Utbah, Wadha, Wahshiyah, Warwar,Yumn, Yusra, Yusriyya, Zaib, Zainab, Zaynab, Zebba, Zebeebah, Zeenat, Zubaydah, Zuhair, Zuhayr, Zuhra, Zulaikha Bynames: Aadila, Agda, Aisha, Akasma, Akilah, Alia, Almaas, Amina, Aminah, Andalib, Asiya, Asma, Atalaya, Ayesha, Aziza, Barakah, Basheera, Deeba, Durdaana, Faa’iza, Faakhira, Faaria, Farida, Farzaana, Fasiha, Fauziyya, Gauhar, Ghazaala, Ghulshan, Gulzar, Habibah, Hafsa, Hafsah, Halima, Hanifa, Haseena, Humaira, Huraiva, Husna, Iram, Izora, Jalila, Jamila, Jamilah, Jannat, Kabira, Kalima, Kamilah, Karida, Khalida, Khaliqa, Khawala, Laa’iqa, Lulu, Maajida, Marwaarid, Mastoura, Muhsana, Muhsina, Naa’ila, Naadira, Naadiya, Naazima, Naazira, Nabila, Nafisa, Nahira, Najam, Najiba, Najjiyya, Najma, Nargis, Nasira, Nilofar, Nizaa, Noura, Numa, Ra’naa, Rabiah, Racha, Radhia, Rafeeqa, Raheema, Rashida, Reshmaan, Rihana, Saabira, Saadiqa, Sabah, Sadira, Saghira, Salima, Salma, Salwa, Samina, Samira, Sauda, Shaahida, Shaakira, Shafiqa, Shahlaa, Shakila, Shama, Sharaara, Sharil, Suraab, Taahira, Taaj, Talitha, Thurayya, Uzma, Waajida, Wahida, Wasima, Yaaqut, Yasmin, Zaahida, Zaahira, Zahra, Zahrah, Zakkiyya, Zamurrad, Zareena, Zarifa, Zarqaa, Zerdali, Zora Bynames As noted above, some personal names can be used as bynames as well, for instance, Rashid (guide) and al-Rashid (the well-guided), as in the legendary Haroun al-Rashid. A few bynames follow, divided by type. Occupational bynames can easily be created in English: Hassan the Tailor, Fuad the Goldsmith; you can extend this to other types of byname if you wish. Placename identifiers are discussed in the introduction. Note: changes to the article al- to match the words following are only to show how it is pronounced; it is usually left unchanged in writing. Beasts: al-Arnabah, al-Baabar, al-Bulbul, al-Fahd, al-Ghazali, al-Hayawan, al-Humaa’, al-Nasr, al-Qut, al-Tair, al-Zarzur, el-Hiri Occupations: al-Aghani, al-Darazi, al-Hadi, al-Junaid, al-Hakam, al-Khafah, al-Mer, al-Mujaahid, al-Rumat, al-Saffaah, al-Saffar, udh-Dhahab, ul-Jawahir Qualities: al’Em, al-Ashra, al-Bayan, al-Habib, al-Hamasa, al-Hasan, al-Jahiz, al-M’amun, al-Ma, al-Mahasin, al-Majnun, al-Mansur, al-Marid, al-Mas’udi, al-Mira, al-Najmi, al-Reyhan, al-Shidda Female: al-Asilah, Al-Bakiyah, al-Gharibah, al-Ja’iah, al-Khansaa, al-Khayzuran, al-Muta’adhiba, al-Muta’ajiba, al-Mutawahishah, al-Rajiyah, al-Thartharah, al-Zarqaa, at-Tih, Bedr-el-Budr, Dur-re-Shahwar, Zoebd-el-Khematin Religious Epithets Abdul and Abdullah derive from religious epithets, and are most often used as names in places like Turkey and Afghanistan where there is religious influence but Arabic isn’t the native tongue. ‘Abd-al’ (Abdul) means ‘servant of’, and should properly be followed by God, as in ‘Abd-al-Allah’ (the most popular, whence Abdullah), or one of the divine attributes listed below. Prefix an attribute with ‘Abd-’ to get a religious cognomen, such as ‘Abd-al-Haqq’, servant of the Truth. A second set of religious epithets ends in ‘al-Din’ meaning ‘the faith’, and was most common among Persians and Turks of high rank. Hence ‘Seif-al-Din’, sword of the faith, and ‘Sal-ad-Din’ (Saladin), goodness of the faith. Examples are listed below; many personal bynames could also be used in such compounds. Attribute:adh-Dhaar, al-’Adil, al-’Afuw, al-’Azim, al-Akhir, al-Ali, al-Alim, al-Awwal, al-Aziz, al-Baa’ith, al-Baasit, al-Badi, al-Baki, al-Bari, al-Barr, al-Baseer, al-Batin, al-Fattah, al-Ghaffar, al-Ghafur, al-Ghani, al-Haafiz, al-Hadi, al-Hafiz, al-Hai’yy, al-Hakam, al-Hakim, al-Halim, al-Hamid, al-Haqq, al-Hasib, al-Jaami, al-Jabbar, al-Jalil, al-Kabir, al-Kabiz, al-Kadir, al-Kahhar, al-Kaiyum, al-Karim, al-Kawi, al-Khaaliq, al-Khabir, al-Kuddos, al-Latif, al-Majid, al-Malik, al-Mani, al-Matin, al-Mu’akhkhir, al-Mu’id, al-Mu’izz, al-Mu’min, al-Mu’ti, al-Muawwir, al-Mubdi, al-Mughni, al-Muhaimin, al-Muhsi, al-Muhyi, al-Mujib, al-Mukkadim, al-Muktadir, al-Muktakabbir, al-Mumit, al-Muntaqim, al-Muqeet, al-Muqsit, al-Musawwit, al-Muta’ali, al-Muzil, al-Razzaaq, al-Waarith, al-Waasi, al-Wadood, al-Wahhaab, al-Wahid, al-Wajid, al-Wakil, al-Wali, an-Naafi, an-Noor,ar-Ra’uf, ar-Raafi, ar-Rahim, ar-Rahmaan, ar-Rakib, ar-Rashid, as-Sabur, as-Salaam, as-Samad, as-Sami, ash-Shahid, ash-Shakur, at-Tawwaab, az-Zahir, az-Zarr, Maalik ul-Mulk, Zul-jalaal Wal Ikraam Faith:Ala-ad-Din, Badr-al-Din, Baha-al-Din, Fakhr-al-Din, Farid-ed-Din, Ghiyath-ud-Din, Imad-al-Din, Jalal-ad-Din, Kamal-al-Din, Khair-ed-Din, Majd-al-Din, Mu’izz-ad-Din, Muzaffar-ed-Din, Nasr-ed-Din, Nizam-ed-Din, Nur-al-Din, Rukn-ud-Din, Sal-ad-Din, Seif.al-Din, Shams-ud-Din, Taqi-ud-Din Greek Modern naming patterns are the same as those for English: one Pronunciation or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Greek of course has its own alphabet. The standard translitera-Marina Mikali. tion is pronounced much the same as English. Some variant transliterations have been used where these are common outside In Greece, family names change their endings with the sex of the Greece, such as ‘f’and ‘ph’(for the Greek letter phi). The /a/ is bearer, although the masculine form is liable to be used outside long, as in ‘art’, and the /e/ short as in ‘pet’ even when it ends a Greece. The Greeks have as many variations, nicknames, word. The /i/ is a long /ee/ sound; the /ou/ rhymes with ‘moon’ diminutives, and pet names as anyone else, for instance The /c/ is hard, the same as /k/. However, the /b/ is more of a /v/ Alexander gives rise to Alekos,Aleksiu, Alexios, Sander, and sound, the /d/ more like the /th/ in ‘think’, and the /g/ softens to Sandros; Athanasios gives rise to Thanasis, Thanasi, and a /y/ before /i/ or /e/. Thanos. Some of these become names in their own right. Male Personal Names Common:Athanasios, Demetrios, Dimitrios, George, Georges, Georgios, Ioannis, John, Nicolas, Nikolaos Standard:Achilles, Adam, Adonis, Agapios, Alexander,Alexandros, Alexios, Ambrosios, Anastasios, Andreas, Andronis, Angelos, Antonios, Antony, Apollo, Apostolos, Archimedes,Aristides, Aristotelis, Aristotle, Athanasios, Basil, Basileios, Basilios, Basilis, Benedictos, Christianos, Christos, Damian, Damianos, Damon, Demetri, Demetrios, Demetrius, Dimitrios, Dimitris, Dion, Dionisios, Dionysios, Elias, Elis, Erasmios, Erasmos, Eugenios, Eustakhios, Evangelos, George, Georges, Georgios, Georgis, Georgos, Giannes, Giannis, Gregorios, Grigoris, Herakles, Iason, Ioannes, Ioannis, Ion, John, Kalinikos, Konstantinos, Kosmas, Kostas, Kristianos, Kristos, Kypros, Kyriako, Kyrillos, Lambros, Leiandros, Leonidas, Leontius, Loukanos, Loukas, Lukas, Lysander, Lysandros, Makarios, Manolis, Mark, Markos, Martinos, Matthaios, Menelas, Michael, Mihail, Mikhalis, Milos, Nektarios, Nestor, Nick, Nicolas, Niko, Nikodemos, Nikolaos, Nikolas, Nikolos, Nikomedes, Nikos, Odysseus, Orestes, Orion, Panagiotes, Panagris, Panos, Pantelis, Panus, Parthenios, Pericles Periklis, Perikles, Periklis, Peter, Petros, Philip, Philippos, Rhigas, Savas, Sebastianos, Simeon, Sivos, Spiridon, Spyros, Stavros, Stefanos, Stelios, Stephanos, Thaddaios, Thanos, Theodoros, Theodorus, Theodosius, Theofanis, Theophilos, Thomas, Timotheos, Tom, Vangeli, Vangelos, Vasileios, Vasilios, Vasilis, Vassili, Yannis, Yiannis, Yiorgos, Yorgos, Zenobios Female Personal Names Common:Anna, Berenike, Charis, Elena, Kostatina, Marina, Nikola, Penelope, Sofi, Zoë Standard:Adonia,Agalia, Agatha, Agathe, Agathi, Aleka, Alethea, Alexa, Alexandra, Alithea, Althaia,Ambrosia, Anastasia, Anastasie, Anatolia, Andrea, Andrianna, Andromede, Angelika, Angeliki, Anna, Anthea, Apolline, Arete, Ariadne, Ariane, Artemisia, bOOK OF NAMES 113 Astrea, Atalanta, Atalante, Athena,Atlanta, Berenike, Charis, Charissa, Chloe, Chloris, Christiane, Cressida, Cynara, Cytherea, Damaris, Daphne, Deianira, Delia, Delphine, Delphinia, Demetria, Denise, Dora, Doris, Dorkas, Dorothea, Efimia, Eireni, Ekaterini, Elena, Eleni, Eudora, Eudoxia, Evadne, Evgenia, Fotini, Helena, Helene, Hrisoula, Ioanna, Iona, Ione, Iris, Isadora, Kaligenia, Kalika, Kallirrhoe, Kalonice, Kalyca, Kassandra, Katerina, Konstantina, Korinna, Kosta, Kostatina, Kyra, Kyriakoula, Leandra, Leda, Lena, Lydia, Margareta, Margaritis, Maria, Marika, Marina, Maroula, Melina, Melissa, Melita, Nerissa, Nikola, Nikoleta, Niobe, Noula, Nyssa, Olympia, Ourania, Pauline, Pelagia, Penelope, Petra, Philippa, Philomela, Phyllis, Pipitsa, Popi, Rasia, Rena, Saphhira, Sibyl, Sofi, Sofia, Sofronia, Sophia, Stamatia, Stefana, Stefania, Stella, Sylva, Tassia, Tassis, Tekla, Thea, Theodora, Theodosia, Theophila, Theophilia, Theresa, Timothea, Toula, Triphena, Xanthe, Xenia, Xylia, Xylina, Zephyra, Zoë Family Names Note that the list of surnames is in masculine form, and when in Greece apply mostly to males as written. For females, use feminine endings. The male ending -on remains the same, but the endings -as, -es, -is, -os, and -ou all lose their final letter for females. For example, the male Lambrou, Pagonis, and Spiropoulos change to female Lambro, Pagoni, and Spiropoulo. The masculine form is used outside Greece. Common: Dimitris, Filippos, Georgiadis, Ioannou, Konstanopoulos, Mikalis, Nikolaides, Papadopoulos, Symeonides, Theodopoulos Standard:Adamakos, Adamopoulos, Adraktas, Adriopoulos, Agamemmonos, Agelakos, Agorastos, Alexiadis, Alexiou, Alexopoulos, Anagnostou, Anastassiou, Andreou, Andriopoulos, Andronikos, Androupolos, Angelis, Angelou, Anninos, Anthimiades, Antonopoulos, Athanasiadis, Bakirdzis, Balanos, Ballas, Bazignos, Bekatorou, Boudouris, Boufidis, Boyagis, Callaros, Carides, Chiklakis, Christodoulou, Christofis, Chrysidou, Chryssos, Chryssou, Clerides, Cocoros, Constantinis, Costanduros, Cotsadis, Coulouris, Dalakas, Damaskinos, Deligiorgis, Dellas, Demosthenes, Diakonis, Diakopoulou, Diamandakis, Dimitrakos, Dimitriades, Dimitris, Dimopoulos, Diomedes, Doukas, Dukakis, Economakis, Eliades, Ellinas, Evangelou, Fassouletou, Felouzis, Fettas, Filippidis, Filippidou, Filippos, Galonopoulas, Gatzioudis, Georgiadis, Georgiadou, Gergatsoulis, Giannakas, Giannetakis, Giorgiou, Giorgokopoulos, Gizikis, Grigoratos, Halkias, Hatzinikitas, Herouvis, Hiras, Horiatis, Iakovakis, Iakovou, Iatrides, Ikonomou, Ioannis, Ioannou, Kafkaloudes, Kakadelis, Kallabis, Kalvos, Kanellopoulos, Kapakos, Kapetanakis, Karamanlis, Karatossos, Karaxis, Kasomoulis, Kassotis, Katros, Katrou, Katsounis, Kavallierou, Kochalakos, Kokotis, Kokounos, Kolokouris, Konidis, Konstanopoulos, Konstantinidis, Konstantinidou, Konstantinou, Koryzis, Koskotas, Kosmas, Kostis, Kostopoulou, Kostopulos, Kotekas, Kourlabas, Kourlas, Kourniakis, Kousoulas, Kritikou, Kritopoulos, Kyprianou, Kyriakou, Kyriazis, Labrinos, Lalos, Lambrakis, Lambrinos, Lambrou, Lathouras, Leonidis, Lianis, Logothetis, Lukios, Lyristakis, Lyssarides, Madias, Maganas, Maharis, Maithonis, Makarezos, Makrakos, Malachias, Mandrapilias, Manoussos, Maragos, Marcoullides, Marinatos, Markakis, Markos, Markoulides, Matsakis, Mavridou, Mavros, Mavroudis, Mazourakis, Melas, Melikis, Melissanides, Mercouris, Mikalis, Mikhalakopoulos, Mitrou, Mitsotakis, Mousetis, Mouskouris, Moustakakis, Mylonas, Niarkhos, Nicholas, Nickos, Nikolaides, Nikolaidou, Nikolaos, Nikolaou, Nikolos, Niotis, Nisyrios, Nisyriou, Onassis, Orphanides, Ortakales, Oxinos, Pagonis, Pahoundis, Palamas, Panagiotou, Panagou, Panagoulis, Panas, Pandis, Pangalos, Pantelis, Papadakis, Papademetriou, Papadias, Papadopoulos, Papadopoulou, Papageorgiou, Papagos, Papakostas, Papandreou, Papanikitas, Papathanassiou, Papoulias, Pappangelis, Pappas, Pavlou, Pelegrinnis, Peppas, Perdikologos, Petrakis, Petritis, Pietris, Polydorou, Poulos, Primikynos, Psaros, Rigopoulos, Rigos, Rousakos, Roussou, Sakellaris, Samaris, Samos, Sanassis, Saraphis, Savakis, Savalos, Sirtis, Sitaras, Skiotis, Skoulos, Skouphas, Sophoulis, Souvaltzis, Spiropoulos, Stabolis, Stamatiadis, Stavrakis, Stavrianos, Stavros, Stefanos, Stephanopoulos, Strategos, Symeonides, Taliadoros, Tathouris, Theodopoulos, Theodorakis, Tsakabikas, Tsakiris, Tsatsos, Tsavdaridou, Tsirigolis, Tsolias, Tzemopoulos, Tzemos, Tzivas, Tzounas, Valakis, Vangelis, Varkas, Vasdekis, Vasiliou, Vassilides, Verdanis, Vergis, Vergopoulos, Xanthos, Xanthou, Xenakis, Xeriteas, Xeritis, Xydis, Yannopoulos, Zaferatos, Zafiropoulos, Zakhariadis, Zannakis, Zannis, Zarikos, Zavolas, Zervakos, Zervas, Zervoudakis, Zikos, Zindilis, Zisimides, Zolotas Ancient Greek (Hellenic) TheAncient Greeks called themselves Hellenes. Ancient Greek patronymic until marriage, then used her husband’s name or Hellenic names remained much the same fromArchaic times similarly as a byname. Rulers might have honorific surnames; (8th century BC and earlier), through Classical Athens (5th and slaves were usually referred to by nicknames. 4th centuries BC), and the Roman Empire. Most names derived from vocabulary items. Some were theophoric, mostly referring The name endings were inflected: -is and -as could be used for to the Olympians, or from mythology, and these stayed popular either sex, but otherwise you can change names endings from even after Christianity. There were many variants. For instance, male -on, -os, -es, -us and -enes, -anthus,-anthes, -andros to the modern Irene (peace) occurred as Eirana, Eirena, Eirene, and female -a, -is, -e, -a and -ene, -anthe,-anthis, -andra or vice versa (rarely) Irana. if you run short of names. The -o ending was feminine (as in Alekto). When it appears in a male name like ‘Plato’ (the A single personal name was used. If necessary, a byname was nickname of the philosopher known as Aristokles) it often means added, usually a patronymic: Demetrios, son of Polydoros an ‘n’ was dropped; sometimes a final ‘s’ might also not be (Demetrios Polydorou), and so on. A woman also used a pronounced, in names like ‘Krateros’. BOOK OF NAMES 114 Pronunciation sounded, and long. The /u/ sounds like /euh/ (a cross between Hellenic names often appear in Latin form, with the ‘k’ (kappa) ‘mew’ and ‘moo’). The /ai/ rhymes with ‘high’, the /au/ with replaced by ‘c’, the commoner ‘-os’ replaced by ‘-us’, ‘-dros’ by ‘how’, and the /ei/ with ‘hey’. A diacritical accent shows where ‘-der’, and so on. The names here are given in a direct adjacent vowels are voiced distinctly (so Zoë rhymes with Joey, transliteration, not a Latinate one, so it’s Khloë, not Chloë, not Joe). The /s/ is soft, as in ‘sing’, the /kh/ is a hiss at the back Alexandros, not Alexander, and so on. Change things back if of the throat, as in ‘loch’ and the /x/ is the same as /ks/ (and is you prefer. (The softer ‘Sur-sea’ pronunciation usually given not /z/ at the start of a word). The Greek distinctions between Circe does admittedly sound more enchantress-like than Kirke.) long and short ‘e’ (eta and epsilon) and ‘o’ (omega and omicron) are not shown here, but enough English words derive from Greek The /a/ is as in ‘uh’ or ‘art’, the /i/ is as in ‘bead’ or ‘bit’, the /o/ that pronunciation should be evident. as in ‘hot’ or ‘awe’. The /e/ is as in ‘bed’or ‘air’; final e’s are Male Personal Names Common:Alexandros, Aphrodisios, Apollodoros, Apollonios, Ariston, Asklepiades, Demetrios, Diodoros, Diokles, Dionysios, Dionysodoros, Epiktetos, Herakleides, Kallias, Nikias, Nikostratos, Philon, Theodoros, Theophilos, Zosimos Standard: Admetos, Adrastos, Aegeos, Aegisthes, Aegisthus, Aeimnestos, Aeskhrion, Aeskhylos, Aeson, Aesop, Agamedes, Agamemnon, Agapenor, Agathokles, Agathon, Agelaos, Agenor, Agrios, Aias, Aigeos, Aketes, Akhates, Akrisios, Alastor, Aletes, Alexandros, Alexarkhos, Alkibiades, Alkinoös,Alkmaeon, Alphenor,Ambrotos, Ameinokles,Amphion, Amphitrion, Amphoteros, Ampyx, Amyntas, Anakreon, Anaxagoras, Anaxandrias, Anaxilas, Anaximander,Anaximenes, Andriskos, Androkles, Andromakhos, Ankaeus, Ankhises, Antagoras, Antenor, Antigenes, Antigonos, Antikles, Antilokhos, Antinoös, Antisthenes, Antodoros, Apelles, Aphrodisios, Apollodoros, Apollonios, Aratos, Areithoös, Arion, Aristagoras, Aristaios, Aristandros, Aristides, Aristippos, Aristodemos, Aristokles, Aristomakhos, Ariston, Aristophanes, Aristophon, Aristoteles, Aristoxenos, Arkhidamos, Artemas, Artemidoros, Askalaphos, Askanios, Asklepiades, Asklepios, Astyanax, Athamas, Athenaeos, Athenodoros, Atreos, Autolykos, Autonoös, Bakkhylides, Balios, Bathykles, Battos, Belos, Bion, Biottos, Biton, Boethos, Briareos, Briseos, Brygos, Daedalos, Damokles, Damon, Damophon, Danaos, Daphnis, Deinarkhos, Deinokrates, Deinomenes, Deiphobos, Demaratos, Demas, Demeas, Demetrios, Demodokos, Demokritos, Demophilos, Demosthenes, Deukalion, Diagoras, Didymos, Diodoros, Diogenes, Diokles, Diomedes, Dion, Dionysios, Dionysodoros, Diphilos, Dorieos, Doron, Doros, Dosithios, Drakon, Dropos, Eiöneos, Eirenaios, Ekhekrates, Ekhestratos, Ekphantos, Elephenor, Empedokles, Endymion, Enkelados, Ephialtes, Ephippos, Ephoros, Epikrates, Epiktetos, Epikuros, Epimenides, Epiphanes, Epitadeos, Erasistratos, Eratosthenes, Erekhtheos, Eteokles, Euagoras, Euandros, Eubulos, Eudoros, Eudoxos, Euenos, Euhemeros, Eukleides, Eukrates, Eumenes, Eumolpos, Euonomos, Euphorbos, Euphorion, Euphronios, Eupolis, Euripides, Euryalos, Eurylokhos, Eurymakhos, Euryphon, Eurypylos, Eurysthenes, Eurystheos, Eurytion, Eutykhides, Exekias, Ganymedes, Gelon, Geminos, Geranion, Glaukos, Glykon, Gorgias, Gylippos, Haemon, Halesos, Hamon, Harmodios, Harpalion, Harpalos, Harpokrates, Hegesinos, Hegias, Hektor, Helenos, Heliodoros, Hellanikos, Hephaestion, Herakleides, Herakleitos, Hermagoras, Hermeias, Hermesianax, Hermias, Hermogenes, Herodikos, Herodotos, Heron, Herophilos, Hesiod, Hieron, Hikesias, Hipparkhos, Hippias, Hippodamos, Hippokoön, Hippokrates, Hippolytos, Hipponax, Hipponikos, Hipponoös, Hippothoön, Homeros, Hylaeos, Hylas, Hyllos, Hyperbolos, Hyperides, Hypsikles, Hypsikrates, Hyrieos, Ialmenos, Iamos, Iason, Iasos, Ibykos, Idmon, Idomeneos, Ikarios, Ilioneos, Iolaos, Ion, Iphikles, Iphikrates, Isagoras, Isidoros, Isigonos, Isokrates, Ister, Isyllos, Ixion, Kadmos, Kalkhas, Kalliaros, Kallias, Kallikrates, Kallikratidas, Kallimakhos, Kallinikos, Kallinos, Kalliphon, Kallippos, Kallisthenes, Kallistratos, Kapaneus, Kapys, Kassandros, Kastor, Kebes, Kekrops, Keleos, Kephalos, Kepheos, Kephisodoros, Kerkidas, Keyx, Khabrias, Khaeremon, Khairophon, Kharaxos, Khares, Khariton, Kharmides, Kharondas, Khilon, Khremonides, Khrysaor, Khryses, Khrysippos, Kimon, Kineas, Kleanthes, Klearkhos, Kleisthenes, Kleitos, Kleobis, Kleombrotos, Kleomenes, Kleon, Kleonides, Kleophon, Koinos, Kolotes, Korax, Koronis, Korydon, Krantor, Krateros, Krates, Kratinos, Kratippos, Kreon, Kresilas, Kritias, Kritodemos, Kritolaos, Kriton, Kroesos, Ktesias, Ktesiphon, Kylon, Kynaegeiros, Kynaethos, Kypselos, Labdakos, Laertes, Lakhares, Lamakhos, Lamprokles, Lampros, Laokoön, Laomedon, Lasos, Leandros, Learkhos, Leokhares, Leokrates, Leon, Leonidas, Leonnatos, Leosthenes, Leotykhides, Leukippos, Leukon, Likhas, Likymnios, Linos, Lydiadas, Lygdamos, Lykidas, Lykomedes, Lykon, Lykophron, Lykortas, Lykos, Lykurgos, Lynkeos, Lysandros, Lysanias, Lysias, Lysikles, Lysimakhos, Lysippos, Lysis, Lysistratos, Makhaon, Makhon, Marinos, Maron, Marsyas, Matris, Megakles, Megas, Megasthenes, Meidias, Melampos, Melanippos, Melanthios, Melas, Meleagros, Meletos, Melikertes, Memnon, Menandros, Menedemos, Menekrates, Menelaos, Menestor, Menexinos, Menippos, Menodotos, Menoekeos, Mentor, Mestor, Metrodoros, Midas, Mikon, Milon, Miltiades, Mimnermos, Mindarus, Minos, Mnaseas, Mnesikles, Mnesilokhos, Mnesimakhos, Molon, Moskhion, Moskhos, Musaeos, Mygdon, Myron, Myrtilos, Nabis, Narkissos, Nauplios, Nausiphanes, Nausithoös, Nearkhos, Neleos, Neophron, Neoptolemos, Nestor, Niarkhos, Nikandros, Nikanor, Nikias, Nikokhares, Nikomakhos, Nikomedes, Nikostratos, Nireos, Nisos, Nyktinos, Nymphodoros, Odysseus, Oibalos, Oidipos, Oineus, Oinomaos, Oinopides, Olympiodoros, Onasandros, Onesikritos, Onomarkhos, Ophellas, Orestes, Oribasios, Orion, Orkhomenos, Ormenos, Orpheos, Orsilokhos, Otos, Oxylos, Paeönios, Palaemon, Palamedes, Palladas, Pammon, Pamphilos, Panaenos, Pandaros, Panthoös, Panyassis, Pappos, Paris, Parmenides, Parmenion, Parthenopaios, Pasion, Patrokles, Pausanias, Pausias, Peisandros, Peisistratos, Pelagon, Peleos, Pelias, Pelopidas, Peneleos, Pentheos, Perdikkas, Periandros, Perikles, Periklymenos, Perimedes, Persaeös, Perseos, Phaedros, Phaiax, Phaidon, Phanodemos, Phaon, Phegeos, Pheidippides, Pherekrates, Pherekydes, Phidias, Philamon, Philemon, Philetas, Philikos, Philippos, Philodemos, Philokles, Philokrates, Philoktetes, Philolaos, Philomen, Philon, Philonides, Philotas, Philoxenos, Phineos, Phlegon, Phoenix, Phokion, Phorbas, Phormis, Phrixos, Phrynikhos, Phylarkhos, Phylas, Pindaros, Pirithoös, Pittakos, Pleisthenes, Pleistos, Podargos, Polemon, Polybos, Polydoros, Polyeidos, Polygnotos, Polykleitos, Polymedes, Polyneikes, Polystratos, Polyzelos, Porphyrios, Poseidippos, Poseidonios, Pratinas, Praxagoras, Praxiteles, Priamos, Priskianos, Prodikos, Prokles, Prokoptas, Protagoras, Protesilaos, Protogenes, Proxenos, Pygmalion, Pylades, Pylas, Pylenor, Pyrrhon, Pythagoras, Pytheas, Pythermos, Pythios, Python, Rhesos, Rhexenor, Rhianos, Rhinthon, Sakadas, Salmoneus, Sarpedon, Satyros, Semos, Serapion, Silanion, Simmias, Simon, Simonides, Simplikios, Sinis, Sinon, Sitakles, Skamandros, Skiron, Skopas, Skopelianos, Skythinos, Sokrates, Solon, Sophokles, Sophron, Sosigenes, Sosikrates, Sosipatros, Sosiphanes, Sostratos, Speusippos, Spintharos, Staphylos, Stentor, Sthenelos, Sthenidas, Stilpon, Strabon, Stratokles, Straton, Strepsiades, Strophios, Talaos, Talthybios, Teiresias, Telamon, Teleklides, Telemakhos, Telephos, Teles, Telesphoros, Temenos, Tereos, Thales, Thaletas, Thamyris, Theagenes, Theages, Themistios, Themistokles, Themistos, Theodoros, Theognis, Theokritos, Theon, Theophilos, Theophrastos, Theoron, Theramenes, Theron, Thersandros, Thersites, Theseus, Thessalos, Thestor, Thibron, Thrasyllos, Thrasymedes, Thukydides, Thyestes, Timaeus, Timagenes, Timagoras, Timanthes, Timokles, Timokreon, Timon, Timosthenes, Timotheos, Tisias, Tlepolemos, Triopas, Triptolemos, Troilos, Trophonios, Tros, Tydeos, Tykhaeos, Tyndareos, Xanthippos, Xanthos, Xenagoras, Xenokrates, Xenophanes, Xenophon, Xuthos, Zagreos, Zenodoros, Zenodotos, Zenon, Zeuxidamos, Zeuxis, Zoilos, Zopyros, Zosimos Female Personal Names Common: Aphrodisia, Aristonike, Arkhestrate, Arkhippe, Athenais, Demetria, Dionysia, Dysistrate, Eirene, Eukoline, Euphrosyne, Glykera, Kallisto, Kallistrate, Khairestrate, Myrrhina, Nikostrate, Phile, Phila, Philoumene, Sostrate Standard: Adea, Admete, Adrastea, Aëdon, Aegeia, Aegialeia, Aëllo, Aërope, Aethra, Aethylla, Aganippe, Agathe, Agaue, Aglaia, Aglaope, Aglauros, Aissa, Alexirrhoë, Alkestis, Alkidike, Alkinoë, Alkippe, Alkithoë, Alkmena, Alkmene, Alkyone, Alope, Althaea, Amalthea, Amaranthe, Amphissa, Amphithoë, Amphitrite, Amymone, Anaxarete, Andromakhe, Andromeda, Anteia, Antheia, Antigone, Antiklea, Antikleia, Antiope, Anyte, Apemosyne, Aphrodisia, Apollonia, Apollonië, Arakhne, Areskousa, Arete, Arethusa, Argeia, Aria,Ariadne, Arisbe, Arista, Aristagora, Ariste, Aristippe, Aristo, Aristoë, Aristokleia, Aristonike, Arkhestrate, Arkhippe, Arne, Arsinoë, Artemidora, Artemisia, Aspasia, Asteria, Asterope, Astraea, Astyokhe, Atalante, Athanais, Athenais, Atthis, Audate, Auge, Autolyte, Autonoë, Baukis, Berenike, Beroë, Biadike, Briseis, Britomartis, Damalis, Damaris, Damatria, Damo, Damoë, Danaë, Daphne, Deianeira, Deidameia, Deinomakhe, Deipyle, Delia, Demetria, Demo, Demonassa, Deone, Derinoë, Dia, Dike, Diktynna, Dione, Dionysia, Diosanthe, Diotima, Dirke, Dorinda, Dorippe, Doris, Dorkas, Dryope, Dysimakhes, Dysistrate, Eidyia, Eirana, Eirena, Eirene, Elektra, Elektryo, Elpinike, Elpis, Enarete, Epikaste, Epiktemis, Epiktesis, Erigone, Erinna, Eriphyle, Erytheia, Euadne, Euakhme, Euandra, Euanthe, Euarete, Eudora, Eukleia, Eukoline, Eunike, Eunoë, Eupheme, Euphemia, Euphrosyna, Euphrosyne, Europa, Eurybia, Eurydike, Eurykleia, Eurynome, Euryphaessa, Eurythoë, Eutykhia, Eutykhis, Galanthis, Galatea, Geilissa, Glaphyra, Glauke, Glaukia, Glaukippe, Glykera, Halia, Harmonia, Harpalyke, Hedeia, Hediste, Hedyle, Hekabe, Helen, Helike, Helle, Hemithea, Heniokhe, Herakleia, Hermiona, Hermione, Hero, Herophile, Hesione, Hilaeira, Hilara, Hipparkhia, Hippodameia, Hippodamia, Hippolyte, Hipponoë, Hippothoë, Hygieia, Hypatia, Hyperippe, Hypermnestra, Hypsipyle, Hyrmine, Hyrnetho, Ialysa, Ianthe, Idaea, Ilione, Ino, Io, Iokaste, Iolanthe, Iole, Iomene, Iphianassa, Iphigenia, Iphimedeia, Iphinoë, Irana, Isias, Ismene, Ismenia, Iynx, Kaenis, Kallianeira, Kallidike, Kallirhoë, Kallisto, Kallistomakhe, Kallistrate, Kallitykhe, Kallonike, Kallypso, Kalyke, Kanakhe, Kassandra, Kassiopeia, Kerkysera, Khairestrate, Khalkiope, Kharis, Khione, Khloë, Khloris, Khryse, Khryseis, Khrysothemis, Khthonia, Killa, Kirke, Kisseis, Kleite, Kleo, Kleonike, Kleopatra, Kleoptolme, Kleothera, Klymene, Klytemnestra, Korinna, Koronis, Kranaë, Kreusa, Kritylla, Kydippe, Kymothoë, Kynane, Kynthia, Kypris, Kyrene, Kytheris, Laena, Lais, Lalage, Lampedo, Lampetia, Lampito, Laodaeia, Laodameia, Laodike, Laonike, Laothoë, Leaina, Leda, Leontion, Leto, Leukippe, Ligeia, Lykiska, Lyktaea, Lysianassa, Lysippe, Lysistrata, Maera, Maia, Makaria, Malthake, Manua, Marpessa, Meda, Medeia, Megamede, Megara, Meilikhis, Melanippe, Melanis, Melantho, Melia, Meliboëa, Melissa, Melite, Melitta, Menippe, Merope, Metaneira, Metharme, Metiadusa, Metis, Metope, Midea, Mika, Minthe, Misme, Mnesimakhe, Mnesistrates, Molione, Mousa, Myia, Myrrhina, Myrrhine, Myrtis, Naukrate, Naupiadame, Nausikaa, Neaera, Neis, Nephele, Nika, Nikaea, Nikarete, Nike, Nikippe, Niko, Nikoë, Nikomakhe, Nikostrate, Niobe, Nysa, Oinone, Olympias, Omphale, Oreithyia, Ornis, Orphne, Orseis, Ortheia, Otionia, Pamphila, Pamphile, Pamphilo, Panakeia, Pandora, Paramona, Paramone, Parthenea, Parthenope, Pasiphaë, Peisinoë, Pelopia, Penelope, Penthesilea, Penthesileia, Perdix, Periboëa, Perimede, Perse, Phaedra, Phaethusa, Phanostrate, Phereboëa, Phila, Phile, Philippa, Philippe, Philista, Philomela, Philomena, Philomene, Philonoë, Philotera, Philoumena, Philoumene, Philoxena, Philyra, Phoebe, Phryne, Phthia, Phyllis, Phylonome, Pieris, Pitthea, Pleione, Polyboëa, Polydamna, Polydora, Polykaste, Polymede, Polymela, Polymele, Polypheme, Polyxena, Polyxene, Praxagora, Praxilla, Praxithea, Prokleia, Prokne, Prokris, Pronoë, Prote, Protogonia, Psamathe, Pylia, Pyrrha, Pythia, Rhene, Rhode, Rhodope, Rhoeo, Salamis, Sappho, Satyraea, Semele, Sidero, Siphis, Skarphe, Skotia, Skylla, Smyrne, Sostrate, Soteira, Soteria, Soteris, Sterope, Stheneboëa, Sthenele, Stratonika, Stratonike, Strymo, Taygete, Tekmessa, Telekleia, Telephassa, Telesilla, Thais, Thalassa, Theano, Thedora, Thelxepeia, Thelxinoë, Themisto, Theodora, Theonoë, Theope, Theophane, Theophania, Theophila, Theophile, Thessalonike, Theudora, Thisbe, Thoë, Thoösa, Thyone, Timaea, Timandra, Timo, Tryphena, Tryphosa, Tykha, Tykhe, Tyro, Xanthe, Xanthippe, Xeneia, Xeno, Xenokleia, Xenophile, Xenylla, Zerynthia, Zetha, Zeuxhippe, Zoë, Zopoura, Zopura, Zosima, Zosime Italian Italian personal names tend to derive from modernised Roman names (commonly replacing the Latin ‘-us’ by an ‘-o’ ending) or the names of saints. Italy has a wide range of alternative and diminutive endings for names: as in English, sometimes these are added casually, and sometimes the pet form can become a name in its own right. Many names and their diminutives can change gender by switching the ending between masculine -o, -ino, etto, -ello and feminine -a, -ina, etta, -ella respectively, as in Mario/ Maria, Bernardino/Bernardina, and the like. (It is also possible to add dismissive or contemptuous endings: masculine -uccio or .accio and feminine -uccia or -accia.) Italian family names came from patronymics, place names, and nicknames, as usual. They became fixed in about the 15th century. The prefix ‘di’meaning ‘of’or ‘from’was used for patronymics (which could derive from saints as well as fathers). For instance, Giovanni’s son and daughter might have been known as Luigi di Giovanni and Paola di Giovanni. Other prefixes indicated a place: ‘di’and ‘da’, meaning ‘of’or ‘from’, as in di Male Personal Names Napoli; or or a nickname: ‘la’, and ‘lo’, meaning ‘the’ (and ‘of the family’ in some places). These were added to, removed from, or combined with Italian family names almost at will over the years, for example: la Blache, Blache, Lablache, and so on. The pattern is the same as the English one: one or more personal names (two is most common) followed by a family name, for example, Giovanni Mario Rossi. A man is addressed as Signore. An unmarried woman is addressed as Signorina, and a married one as Signora. Pronunciation Italian is phonetic, that is, you say all the letters, even the final e’s. The /er/ rhymes with ‘purr’, and the other e’s sound like the one in ‘men’. The /g/ and /c/ are hard, except before /e/ or /i/. The /cc/ sounds like the /ch/ that starts ‘chair’. The /a/ is short, as in ‘cat’. The /i/ is a long /ee/ sound, and /o/ and /u/ are also long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’respectively. Common:Aldo,Alessandro, Alfredo,Angelo, Antonio,Arturo, Bruno, Cesare, Daniele, Dino, Enzo, Francesco, Giovanni, Giuseppe, Luigi, Mario, Mauro, Paolo, Pasquale, Roberto Standard:Achilleo, Adamo, Adriano, Agostino, Albino, Alcide, Aldo, Alessandro, Alfredo, Aloysio,Alvaro, Amato, Ambrogio, Amedeo, Amelio, Amilcare, Anacleto, Andrea, Andriolo, Angelico, Angelo, Aniello, Anselmo, Antonio, Arabaldo, Arduino, Aretino, Arnaldo, Arnolfo, Arrigo, Arturo, Asdrubale, Augusto, Aurelio, Azzone, Baldassare, Balduccio, Banco, Barnabà, Bàrtolo, Bàrtolomeo, Battista, Bellarmino, Benedetto, Beniamino, Benicio, Benno, Benozzo, Benvenuto, Beppo, Bernadino, Berto, Bertrando, Biaghio, Bodo, Bonauito, Bonaventura, Bonfilio, Bonizo, Brizio, Bruno, Callisto, Calogero, Camaino, Cambio, Camillo, Carlito, Carlo, Cesare, Cipriano, Ciro, Claudio, Columbano, Constanzo, Coppo, Corfino, Corrado, Cosimo, Cristoforo, Curzio, Damiano, Dario, Daniele, Demetrio, Dino, Dionigi, Domenico, Donato, Eduardo, Efisio, Elio, Elpidio, Emiliano, Ennio, Enrico, Enzio, Enzo, Erberto, Ercole, Ermanno, Ettore, Eugenio, Eustachio, Evaristo, Ezzo, Fabiano, Fabio, Federico, Felice, Feliciano, Ferdinando, Ferrando, Ferranti, Ferrucio, Filiberto, Fiorenzo, Francesco, Franco, Frederico, Fulvio, Furio, Gabriel, Gabriele, Galeazzo, Galileo, Galimberto, Garibaldo, Gaspare, Gavino, Geronimo, Giacomo, Giambattista, Giampaolo, Giampietro, Gian, Gianfranco, Gianlorenzo, Gianluca, Gianluigi, Gianni, Gianpiero, Gilberto, Gino, Giorgio, Giotto, Giovane, Giovanni, Giraldo, Giuliano, Giulio, Giuseppe, Giusto, Goffredo, Gregorio, Gualberto, Gualtieri, Guglielmo, Guido, Guilio, Iachimo, Ignazio, Ilario, Italo, Jacopo, Javier, Lando, Leandro, Leonardo, Leone, Leopoldo, Lorenzo, Lotario, Luca, Luciano, Lucio, Ludovico, Luigi, Macario, Manfredo, Marcellino, Marcello, Marco, Marcovaldo, Mariano, Mario, Massimiliano, Massimo, Matteo, Maurizio, Mauro, Melchiorre, Mercurino, Michelangelo, Michele, Modesto, Moreno, Mosé, Nardo, Nataniele, Nazario, Nero, Nestore, Niccolo, Nicodemo, Nicola, Nicoletto, Nunzio, Odilon, Onofrio, Orfeo, Orlando, Pacifico, Palmiro, Pancrazio, Pao, Paolo, Pasquale, Pellegrino, Peppe, Pietro, Ponzio, Primo, Prospero, Quirino, Raffaele, Raffaello, Raimondo, Rainieri, Raniero, Raul, Renzo, Rico, Rinaldo, Roberto, Rocco, Roderico, Rodrigo, Romero, Rossano, Ruffino, Ruggiero, Salvatore, Sandro, Santo, Saverio, Sergio, Severiano, Severino, Silvano, Silvestro, Silvio, Simone, Sperandeo, Stefano, Taddeo, Tammaro, Tancredo, Teodosio, Thaddeo, Timoteo, Tino, Tito, Tiziano, Tommaso, Tomme, Torquato, Toto, Tullio, Ubaldo, Ugo, Ugolino, Umberto, Valentino, Vasco, Vespasiano, Viaro, Vincenzo, Virgilio, Vitale, Vito, Viviano, Xaverio Female Personal Names Common:Alessandra, Anna, Beatrice, Caterina, Chiara, Claudia, Cristina, Daniela, Eleonora, Elisabetta, Fabia, Francesca, Laura, Luisa, Margherita, Maria, Paola, Rosa, Silvia, Tullia Standard:Ada, Adalgisa, Addolorata, Adriana, Agata, Agnesca, Agnese, Alessandra, Alessia, Aletea, Allegra, Amadea, Amalia, Amelia, Amica, Amina, Ammanata, Angela, Angelica, Aniella, Anna, Anna Maria,Annabella, Annunziata, Antonia, Argento, Arianna, Armida, Arminia, Artemisia, Assunta, Assuntina, Aurea, Aurelia, Barbara, Bartolomaea, Beatrice, Benedetta, Bertana, Bertilla, Bettina, Bianca, Bibiana, Bice, Brigita, Brunella, Camilla, Caprice, Carissa, Carita, Carlotta, Carmela, Caterina, Cecilia, Cella, Cesira, Chiara, Christina, Cinzia, Citha, Claricia, Claudia, Clementia, Conccetta, Consilia, Consolata, Costante, Cristina, Daniela, Deborah, Delfina, Detta, Diana, Domenica, Domitilla, Donata, Donatella, Dora, Edetta, Elda, Eleonora, Elettra, Eliana, Elisa, Elisabetta, Eloisa, Elvira, Emerenzia, Emilia, Enrichetta, Esmeralda, Etheria, Eugenia, Eusapia, Eva, Evelina, Fabia, Fabiola, Fabrizia, Federica, Felicita, Fiametta, Fiammetta, Filomena, Fiora, Fiorella, Fiorenza, Fioretta, Franca, Francesca, Gaetana, Gemma, Giachetta, Giada, Gianetta, Gianna, Giannina, Gilberta, Gilda, Gina, Ginevra, Gioconda, Gisela, Gisella, Giulia, Giuliana, Giulietta, Giuseppina, Gravina, Grazia, Graziella, Griselda, Illaria, Ilvia, Imelda, Immacolata, Innocenza, Isabella, Isolde, Jolanda, Julitta, Jutta, Lara, Laura, Lauretta, Lavinia, Lea, Leda, Lena, Leonara, Leontina, Letizia, Lia, Lidia, Liliana, Lisa, Lisabetta, Lisetta, Lizia, Loredana, Loretta, Luana, Lucia, Luciella, Lucretzia, Luigina, Luisa, Maddelena, Mafalda, Maia, Mara, Marcella, Margherita, Maria, Mariella, Marietta, Marisa, Maura, Melina, Melissa, Michela, Miuccia, Monica, Morena, Natalia, Nerina, Nicoletta, Nina, Noemi, Nunziatella, Nunziatina, Olimpia, Olinda, Oriana, Ornella, Ornetta, Orsola, Pamela, Paola, Paolina, Patrizia, Pelagia, Perla, Perna, Petronilla, Pia, Piacenza, Pina, Porzia, Prada, Prasede, Pudenziana, Rachele, Raimonda, Renata, Rina, Rita, Romilda, Rosa, Rosalba, Rosalia, Rosangela, Rosetta, Rosina, Sabina, Sabrina, Samantha, Sandra, Santuzza, Sara, Savina, Scevola, Serafina, Serena, Silvana, Silvia, Simona, Simonetta, Sitha, Smeralda, Sofia, Sophonsiba, Stefania, Stefanina, Susanna, Teà, Teodora, Teresina, Theresa, Tita, Tiziana, Tommasa, Tommasina, Tullia, Valencia, Vanozza, Venezia, Veronica, Viola, Violante, Vittoria, Viviana, Zaira, Zita Family Names Common: Bianchi, Bruno, Colombo, Conti, Costa, De Luca, Esposito, Ferrari, Gallo, Giordano, Greco, Lombardi, Mancini, Marino, Moretti, Ricci, Rizzo, Romano, Rossi, Russo Standard:Abbati, Abruzzi, Acerbi, Aglietti, Agnelli, Aguzzi, Aiello, Albani, Alberigo, Alberoni, Alberti, Albioni, Alessi, Alfieri, Alighero, Allori, Altabani, Altieri, Ambrogiani, Amocacci, Amore, Ancellotti, Andretti, Anganuzzi, Angelico, Anguissola, Aniello, Antonelli, Antonioni, Apolloni, Arici, Armelini, Arnaldi, Arnoldi, Assante, Assarotti, Assi, Avanzi, Avanzo, Avellino, Azzopardi, Bacardi, Bagliani, Baio, Balani, Baldini, Bandiera, Barbarolli, Barberini, Barbieri, Bardi, Barola, Barretti, Bartoccini, Basile, Bassano, Batistuta, Batoni, Batticelli, Beduzzi, Bellini, Bello, Belloli, Bembo, Benarrivo, Benelli, Benizi, Bergomi, Bernasconi, Bernini, Berti, Bertoletti, Bertolini, Bertoluchi, Betti, Bianchetti, Bianchi, Biffi, Birindelli, Boccanera, Bocci, Bolgheri, Bologni, Bonaiuncta, Bonauiti, Bonelli, Bonometti, Bonomi, Borcellino, Borghese, Bossi, Botta, Botticelli, Bozzetto, Bracci, Bramati, Branca, Brandini, Brando, Brandoni, Braschi, Brazzi, Bregonzi, Brescia, Brezzi, Brunetti, Bruno, Bucci, Buon, Burone, Busoni, Cabrini, Cacadino, Caccio, Cadoni, Caetani, Cafasso, Calabresi, Calandrini, Caliari, Calvino, Calza, Calzolai, Campanaro, Campione, Canalo, Canarica, Canetti, Cannavaro, Cantagalli, Cantone, Capasso, Capelli, Cappelletti, Caraccioni, Caraffa, Caravaggio, Carboni, Cardinale, Cardone, Carducci, Carlucci, Carnera, Carosi, Carotta, Carpaccio, Carpini, Carracci, Carrara, Caruso, Castagna, Castella, Castellanata, Catazara, Cattaneo, Cavallini, Cellini, Ceriani, Cerretti, Cervini, Cesaresco, Cestini, Checchinato, Chiesa, Ciappi, Ciaravella, Ciasca, Cicarelli, Cilento, Ciocchi, Cipolloni, Ciriaco, Clementi, Cocciarella, Cognasso, Colombo, Columbana, Columbo, Compagnoni, Conegliano, Conti, Coppola, Coriolano, Corleone, Corone, Corosi, Corsini, Corticelli, Costa, Cottolengo, Covi, Crespi, Crisalli, Crivelli, Cugnoni, Cumani, Curti, Cuzzocrea, da Vinci, Damasco, Damiani, Danei, de Luca, de Vesci, Deangelo, Defazio, del Arco, del Piero, Delicati, Dettori, di Cherico, Dimatteo, Disegno, Donadoni, Donatello, Donelli, Donizetti, Duccio, Eco, Eccelino, Emiliani, Erbetto, Eremitani, Eruzione, Esposito, Fabroni, Fachinetti, Falchonelli, Falconieri, Fallaci, Farentino, Fasoli, Fazio, Fedele, Felitti, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferraroti, Ferrero, Ferretti, Ferrua, Ferzetti, Fibonacci, Fiesole, Figarolla, Filareta, Fiorentino, Fonzarelli, Frangilli, Frattasio, Freschi, Frugoni, Fuchillo, Fugosi, Funicello, Furio, Furlan, Galante, Galatti, Galli, Galliano, Gallizio, Gallo, Galvani, Gambachini, Gambetta, Gandolfi, Ganganelli, Gardini, Garibaldi, Garrone, Ghislieri, Giacconi, Giacomelli, Giocondi, Giordano, Giotti, Giovannoni, Giuggioli, Giugino, Giuliani, Godori, Gonzago, Goretti, Gotti, Gozzoli, Grazioli, Greco, Grimaldi, Guiccardini, Guida, Guidi, Iacacci, Iavazzo, Ignasio, Incani, Ioli, Jaconelli, Jacopino, Labraccio, Lambertini, Lamborghini, Lambruschini, Lamotta, Lando, Laterano, Laziosi, Legnano, Leone, Leopardi, Lercari, Libertini, Licci, Lippi, Locatelli, Loffredo, Lombardi, Lombardo, Lombroso, Lorenzetti, Lubiani, Lucchetti, Luciani, Luiso, Lulli, Lunghi, Lupino, Luttazi, Maccioni, Madonia, Maffei, Magherini, Maidalchini, Maitani, Majarelli, Majella, Malabranca, Malatesta, Maldini, Mancini, Maneilli, Mannini, Manselli, Manteri, Manucci, Marchetti, Marciano, Mariani, Marinelli, Marino, Mariotto, Marocchi, Martinengo, Masaccio, Masolino, Massarelli, Mastroianni, Mazarello, Mazzon, Medici, Mercati, Merici, Minardi, Minnelli, Monachino, Monaldi, Monighetti, Montagnani, Montella, Monticelli, Moretti, Moriero, Moro, Moroni, Morossini, Moschino, Mussi, Mutti, Nannini, Nardini, Navegero, Neri, Nero, Nicoletti, Nicoli, Nota, Nuvolari, Odescalchi, Odilo, Oristano, Orlandi, Pacelli, Pacho, Paganini, Pagliuca, Palgani, Palladio, Pallavicini, Pallotti, Palmarocchi, Palminteri, Paluzzi, Panciroli, Panteleo, Panzanini, Paoli, Paolucci, Paparelli, Papareschi, Paschini, Pasolini, Pazanini, Pecci, Pellico, Peretti, Perrini, Perrone, Piccolomini, Picotti, Piontelli, Pisanello, Pisano, Polidori, Pometti, Pontoni, Porcaro, Porcellato, Poserina, Possenti, Pozzi, Primaticcio, Properzi, Pucci, Puccini, Quattro, Quirini, Radini, Raggio, Ravanelli, Reineri, Rescigno, Rezzori, Ricci, Ricco, Ridolfi, Rizzo, Rochetti, Roghi, Romanelli, Romano, Ronchetti, Roselli, Rospigliosi, Rossellino, Rossetti, Rossi, Rossito, Rucelli, Rufillo, Ruggioni, Russo, Sacchi, Salviati, Santorio, Sapiara, Sarretti, Sarto, Sartoretti, Savelli, Scacceri, Scaligeri, Scarlatti, Sciorra, Scolari, Scotti, Sellecca, Serao, Soranzo, Soreni, Spinello, Stallone, Stefanelli, Sturzo, Tagliatela, Taglieri, Tarantino, Tarducci, Tasso, Tauretto, Tedeschi, Tegliacci, Tibaldi, Tiepolo, Tintoretto, Tomei, Tommasini, Tonetti, Torriani, Torricelli, Tramacchi, Travanti, Travolta, Trillo, Uguccione, Vacarri, Vacca, Vallore, Valturri, Vasario, Vecchio, Venditti, Venturini, Vercesi, Verrochio, Vespucci, Vialli, Villani, Violante, Visconti, Vitagliano, Vittorini, Vivarini, Volpe, Zacco, Zampieri, Zanelli, Zanetti, Zuccaro Medieval Italian In medieval times, there was a wide range of Italian personal that era. Add in more Germanic names if you want an earlier names, basically a mix of Latin derivatives with Germanic ones ambience. Bynames rather than family names were used, as a (from the Lombards) and many new inventions. The Renaissance rule, but some family names were appearing. There were a large happened in Italy first, and the names here slide into those of number of variants, especially diminutives. Male Personal Names Common:Andrea, Antonio, Bartolomeo, Bernardo, Bonacorso, Francesco, Gherardo, Giovanni, Guido, Iacopo, Piero, Ugo Standard:Agnello, Agostino, Aiuto, Alamanno, Albergo, Alberto, Albizzo,Alcherio, Alessandro, Alesso, Alfieri, Alfonso, Aliotto, Amannato, Amato, Amerigo, Amico, Andrea, Angelo, Angiolo, Anselmo, Antonio, Ardovino, Argometto, Arnolda, Arnolfo, Arrigo, Attaviano,Averardo, Azzo, Baldanza, Baldassare, Baldino, Baldovino, Bandino, Bando, Barduccio, Barone, Bartolomeo, Bastiano, Battista, Beccio, Bellomo, Bencivenni, Bene, Benecto, Benedetto, Benenato, Benincasa, Benintende, Benivieni, Benvenuto, Bergo, Bernardino, Bernardo, Bernecto, Bertoldo, Bianco, Bifolco, Boccaccio, Bolgarino, Bonacolto, Bonacorso, Bonafide, Bonagionta, Bonaguida, Bonaiuto, Bonamico, Bonaventura, Bondia, Bonfigliolo, Bonifazio, Boninsegna, Bono, Bonvesin, Borghino, Brancazio, Brunaccio, Brunetto, Buonasera, Buonavere, Buongratia, Calcisciano, Cambio, Carlo, Caroccio, Castello, Cecco, Chiaro, Cittadino, Compagno, Conte, Corso, Cristiano, Cristofano, Damiano, Dato, Davino, Diedato, Dietisalvi, Domenico, Donato, Enzio, Fabiano, Falcone, Felice, Ferrante, Filippo, Folco, Forese, Fortis, Francardo, Francesco, Franco, Frediano, Froderico, Fruosino, Gabbriello, Galeotto, Galgano, Gherardo, Ghiandolfino, Ghino, Gianni, Giordano, Giotto, Giovanni, Giovenco, Giraldo, Gismondo, Gottifredi, Grano, Gratiano, Gregorio, Grugno, Gualando, Gualteri, Guantino, Guidaccio, Guido, Guilelmo, Guiliano, Guiscardo, Iacopo, Ildebrando, Lamberto, Lando, Lanfranco, Leolo, Leonardo, Lodovico, Lorenzo, Lucchese, Lupardo, Lutterio, Manfredi, Manno, Marchionne, Marco, Marignano, Mariotto, Marsilio, Martino, Marzocco, Matteo, Mazzeo, Melanese, Melliorato, Melliore, Mercato, Michele, Montanino, Muricone, Nastagio, Negozante, Nero, Niccolo, Nofri, Oddo, Odimondo, Oliverio, Omodeo, Opizo, Orlando, Ormanno, Orsino, Pace, Paganino, Palmieri, Pandolfo, Paolo, Pazzino, Pellario, Pellegrino, Perfetto, Pericciolo, Pero, Piero, Pierozzo, Pierpaolo, Pisano, Raffaello, Ramondo, Ranero, Ranuccio, Riccardo, Ricco, Ridolfo, Rinaldo, Rinieri, Romeo, Rosso, Ruberto, Ruggieri, Rustico, Sabbatino, Salvestro, Salvi, Silvestro, Simone, Sinibaldo, Sismondo, Sordello, Stefano, Strozza, Taddeo, Talento, Tancredi, Tedice, Tingoso, Tomaso, Tuccio, Turco, Ubaldino, Ubaldo, Ubertino, Uberto, Ugo, Ugolino, Ulfilas, Upizino, Vecchio, Ventura, Vernaccio, Vieri, Villano, Vincenzo, Vitale, Viviano Female Personal Names Common:Amata, Antonia, Benvenuta, Berta, Bona, Bruna, Clara, Flore, Letitia, Massaria, Rosana, Verde Standard:Aconçata, Adelagia, Adelasia, Adeleta, Agnese, Agnola, Agustola, Aighina,Alamanna,Albagia, Albina, Albissima, Alda, Aldiana, Aldrovandina, Alessandra, Altadonna, Altafesta, Alumenata, Amata, Andreola, Anfiliga, Angela, Anguilutia, Antonia, Apregiata, Armilia, Auria, Aveduta, Ayguana, Balsama, Bandecca, Barsia, Bartholomea, Beatrix, Bectonesa, Belafanta, Belda, Beldina, Bella, Bellavedere, Bellavene, Benadacta, Benassaie, Bencevene, Benguardata, Benvenuta, Berarda, Bernardina, Berta, Bice, Bisantia, Bisciolenda, Boccia, Bolia, Bona, Bonabella, Bonadomane, Bonagratia, Bonasia, Bonaventura, Bondina, Bonola, Bruna, Brunella, Caramanna, Carlutia, Çasmundina, Casola, Castellana, Caterina, Çausita, Cavoneria, Cecca, Cicilia, Clara, Clarastella, Comitissa, Complitola, Conçata, Conciata, Consilieria, Consola, Contegiana, Coppola, Corbella, Cortese, Crescembene, Cuniza, Damocta, Daria, Demorola, Dialdana, Dialta, Diamante, Diana, Divitia, Dolce, Domnula, Donnessa, Drosa, Druda, Drudola, Egidia, Elemosina, Elizabeth, Encresciuta, Fabressa, Falconeria, Fiametta, Filippa, Flora, Florita, Francesca, Franceschina, Gaita, Galitia, Gaudente, Gelentesa, Gemma, Genevria, Genna, Giana, Gianetta, Gilia, Ginevria, Giovanna, Gratia, Grimelda, Grisanda, Guarnita, Guerreria, Guinelda, Gulielmina, Honestola, Iacoba, Iacomina, Iaquinta, Imilia, Inglorida, Ingrada, Iohanna, Isabetta, Isotta, Iulia, Iuliana, Lacosciana, Leta, Letitia, Lisa, Lorita, Lucia, Lucrezia, Lukesa, Mabilia, Madolina, Maralda, Marçolina, Marcutia, Margarita, Margola, Maria, Maridonna, Marina, Marozia, Marsilia, Martina, Massaria, Matabruna, Matelda, Mathea, Medonia, Meldina, Meliorata, Meliore, Midonia, Montanaria, Munaldescha, Muriel, Nanna, Nicola, Niccolosa, Nobilis, Odierna, Orabella, Orabilis, Oradina, Orlandina, Palma, Palmeria, Paula, Paulina, Pelegrina, Pera, Perusina, Pia, Piera, Placevele, Plana, Pleneria, Pocobella, Prima, Puçarella, Puçola, Ranutia, Regina, Riccia, Romana, Rosa, Rosana, Rosanella, Rustica, Sabatina, Salomia, Sanda, Santesa, Scarlata, Selanda, Serena, Setembrina, Sibilia, Sifa, Simonecta, Sovrana, Stefania, Tadea, Talia, Tedescha, Theodora, Ticta, Tomasia, Tullia, Ugolina, Verde, Verdelanda, Verderia, Verdiana, Verdis, Vermilia, Verona, Veronica, Versilia, Vicina, Virdiana, Viridis, Vita, Vivola, Yça, Ymilia, Ysabella Roman Ancient Roman names are not that complex, but may seem unusual, especially since most of the recognisable names, like Virgil, are in a shorthand form. Latin is an inflected language, so word endings change with case, gender, and so on - as has been noted, it is not for sissies! You only need know a very little to deal with names, though. It’s easier to look at standard names first, variations later. In Classical Rome, from the later Republic to the early Empire (3rd to 1st centuries BC to 3rd century AD), most Roman male citizens had a three-part name like Gaius Iulius Caesar, Marcus Tullius Cicero, or Publius Vergilius Maro (Virgil). The parts of this ‘tria nomina’ (three names) were the praenomen, nomen, and cognomen: loosely, the personal name, family name, and nickname (which cognomen means in English). There were few praenomina, and the Roman upper class used even fewer. The nomen was the name of one’s gens (clan; plural gentes), and inherited from one’s legal father. The many cognomina took the usual forms of nicknames, referring to features, qualities, occupations, origin, and so on. They could be inherited, especially in large gentes, and so denoted family groups within the gens. It was possible to have more than one, and new cognomina were created all the time, for instance, as honorifics after some career or campaign success. These (later called agnomina) were not usually inherited. Male Names Informally, Roman men used one name: praenomen in the family, nomen or cognomen with friends. Formally, they used any two names, sometimes three. Marcus Aurelius Antoninus used his first two, Gaius Iulius Caesar his last two. Pronunciation The first syllable is stressed in word of two syllables, the penultimate or preceding syllable in a longer word. All letters are pronounced. The /c/ and /g/ are hard, the /v/ is pronounced /w/, and the /i/ sounds like /y/ when used as a consonant. A /y/ itself sounds like ‘oo’. The /s/ is sharp, as in ‘kiss’. The /r/ is rolled. The /gn/ sounds like that in ‘hangnail’, and /h/ after a letter represents aspiration, not softening, so /ch/, /ph/, and /th/ are just /c/, /p/, and /t/ pronounced forcefully. Vowels have short and long forms. The /a/ is as in ‘uh’ or ‘art’, and /e/ as in ‘pet’ or ‘hey’. The /i/ is as in ‘dip’ or ‘deep’, the /o/ as in ‘got’ or ‘go’, the /u/ as in ‘bull’ or ‘moon’. The /ae/ rhymes with ‘eye’, the /au/ with ‘how’, the /ei/ with ‘day’, and the /oe/ with ‘boy’. Some examples: ‘Iulius’is pronounced Yoo-li-us, ‘Caesar’is Kai-sar, ‘Augustus’is ow-Gus-tus, ‘Vergilius’is where-Gill-i-us, ‘Gnaeus’ is Gnai-us, ‘Lucius’ is Loo-ki-us. In later medieval Latin, the ‘v’ was pronounced as /v/, the ‘i’ consonant was changed to a ‘j’, and the /c/ and /s/ could be soft -hence the common spelling and pronunciation of Julius Caesar (Djoo-li-us See-zar). To construct a name for a male Roman citizen, simply choose a praenomen, nomen, and cognomen from the selections hereafter. Unless there is some specific reason for an extra cognomen, only 1 in 30 would have one extra, and 1 in 20 of those another. Praenomina Common:Aulus, Decimus, Gaius, Gnaeus, Lucius, Marcus, Publius, Quintus, Tiberius, Titus Standard:Appius, Aulus, Caeso, Decimus, Decius, Gaius, Gnaeus, Lucius, Mamercus, Manius, Marcus, Numerius, Publius, Quintus, Servius, Sextus, Spurius, Tiberius, Titus Nomina Common:Aemilius, Aurelius, Cornelius, Domitius, Fabius, Flavius, Horatius, Iulius, Livius, Valerius Standard:Accius, Acerronius,Acilius, Aelius,Aemilius, Afinius, Afranius, Albius, Albucius, Alfenus, Anicius, Annaeus, Annius, Antistius, Antonius, Apinius, Apronius, Apuleius, Apustius, Aquila, Aquilius, Arrenius, Arrius, Arruntius, Asconius, Asicius, Asinius, Atilius, Atius, Atrius, Aufidius, Aurelius, Aurunculeius, Autronius, Baebius, Caecilius, Caecina, Caedicius, Caelius, Caeparius, Caepio, Caesennius, Caesernius, Caesidius, Caesonius, Calpurnius, Calvisius, Camurtius, Caninius, Cannutius, Carvilius, Cassius, Catius, Ceionius, Cerrinius, Cestius, Cincius, Claudius, Clodius, Cloelius, Cluentius, Cocceius, Coelius, Coponius, Cornelius, Cornificius, Cornutus, Coruncanius, Cossutus, Cremutius, Curius, Decius, Didius, Domitius, Duilius, Ennius, Fabius, Fabricius, Falcidius, Fannius, Faustius, Favonius, Flaminius, Flavius, Fonteius, Fufius, Fulvius, Fundanius, Furfanius, Furius, Furnius, Gabinius, Gabinus, Galerius, Gellius, Genucius, Haterius, Helvidius, Helvius, Herennius, Hirtius, Horatius, Hortensius, Hostilius, Iulius, Iunius, Iuventius, Labenius, Laberius, Labienus, Laecanius, Laelius, Laevius, Lappius, Licinius, Ligarius, Livius, Lollius, Lucceius, Luccius, Lucretius, Lutatius, Maccius, Maelius, Mallius, Mamilius, Manilius, Manlius, Marcius, Marius, Matius, Memmius, Minucius, Mucius, Mummius, Munatius, Naevius, Nautius, Nigidius, Nonius, Norbanus, Novius, Nymphidius, Octavius, Ogulnius, Ollius, Opimius, Orbillius, Otacilius, Ovidius, Ovinius, Paconius, Pacuvius, Palfurius, Papinius, Papirius, Passienus, Patina, Perperna, Persius, Petillius, Petronius, Platius, Plancius, Plautius, Pleminius, Plinius, Plotius, Pompeius, Pomponius, Pomptinus, Popillius, Poppaedius, Poppaeus, Porcius, Propertius, Publicius, Publilius, Pupius, Quinctilius, Quinctius, Rabirius, Remmius, Roscius, Rubellius, Rupilius, Rutilius, Saenius, Sallustius, Salvius, Saufeius, Scribonius, Sempronius, Sentius, Sergius, Sertius, Sertorius, Servilius, Sestius, Sextius, Silius, Sosius, Statilius, Suetonius, Suillius, Sulpicius, Terentius, Titurius, Trebonius, Tullius, Ulpius, Valerius, Vargunteius, Varius, Vatinius, Veranius, Vergilius, Verginius, Verres, Veturius, Vibienus, Vibius, Villius, Vinicius, Vinius, Vipsanius, Visellius, Vitellius, Volcacius, Volturcius, Volumnius, Volusenus, Volusius BOOK OF NAMES 120 Cognomina Common: Faustus, Felix, Fortunatus, Maximus, Proculus, Rufus, Sabinus, Saturninus, Severus, Victor Ordinal: Primus, Secundus, Tertius, Quartus, Quintus, Sextus, Septimus, Octavius, Nonus, Decius Standard: Achaicus, Acidinus, Aelianus, Aemilianus, Aeserninus, Aesopus, Afer,Africanus, Agricola, Agrippa, Ahala, Ahenobarbus, Albinovanus, Albinus, Alimentus, Allobrigicus, Amelianus, Andronicus, Anteros, Antoninus, Apronianus, Aquilinus, Archias, Arvina, Asiaticus, Asina, Asinus, Asprenas, Atratinus, Atticus, Aurelianus, Aviola, Baculus, Balbillus, Balbus, Baliaricus, Baliarus, Barbaratus, Barbatus, Barbula, Basilus, Bassulus, Bassus, Bestia, Bibulus, Blaesus, Blasio, Brutus, Bubulcus, Bulbus, Bursa, Buteo, Caburus, Caecilius, Caecus, Caepio, Caesar, Caesianus, Caesoninus, Caiatinus, Caldus, Calenus, Callaicus, Calpurnianus, Calpurnius, Calvinus, Calvus, Camerinus, Camillus, Canina, Capella, Capito, Capitolinus, Caprarius, Carbo, Carnifex, Carpus, Catilina, Cato, Catullus, Catus, Caudex, Caudinus, Celer, Celsus, Censorinus, Centho, Centumalus, Cerco, Cerdo, Cethegus, Chilo, Cicero, Cincinnatus, Cinna, Claudius, Clepsina, Clodianus, Commodus, Corculum, Corvinus, Corvus, Cotta, Crassus, Crescens, Creticus, Crispinus, Crispus, Crus, Cunctator, Curio, Cursor, Decius, Decula, Delmaticus, Dentatus, Denter, Diadematus, Dives, Dolabella, Domitianus, Domnotaurus, Drusus, Eburnus, Fabia, Falto, Felix, Figulus, Fimbria, Firmianus, Flaccus, Flaminius, Florens, Florus, Fortunatus, Frugi, Fullo, Fulvus, Fundulus, Fuscus, Gaetulicus, Galba, Gallus, Geminus, Germanicus, Geta, Getha, Glabrio, Glaucia, Gracchus, Gurges, Habitus, Hadrianus, Hilarus, Hispallus, Hortalus, Hypsaeus, Ianuarius, Imbrex, Isauricus, Italicus, Iucundus, Iulianus, Iulius, Iunius, Labeo, Lactantius, Laeca, Laenas, Laevinus, Lamia, Largus, Latro, Laurea, Lenaeus, Lentulus, Lepidus, Libianus, Libo, Licianus, Licinius, Licinus, Ligus, Livianus, Longinus, Longus, Lucanus, Lucullus, Lupus, Luscinus, Luscus, Macedonicus, Magnus, Malleolus, Mancinus, Marcellinus, Marcellus, Maro, Martialis, Marullus, Maso, Matho, Maxentius, Maximinianus, Maximinus, Maximus, Megellus, Merenda, Merula, Messalla, Messallinus, Metellus, Milo, Mucianus, Murena, Mus, Nasica, Naso, Nepos, Nero, Nerullinus, Nerva, Niger, Nigrinus, Nobilior, Noctua, Nonus, Norbanus, Numidicus, Octavius, Opillius, Optimus, Orator, Orestes, Orfitus, Otho, Pacilus, Paetinus, Paetus, Palaemon, Palladius, Pansa, Papinianus, Papus, Pasienus, Paterculus, Paternus, Paullinus, Paullus, Pedanius, Pedo, Pennus, Pera, Persicus, Philippus, Philo, Philus, Pictor, Piso, Pius, Plancus, Plautus, Pollio, Pontius, Porcina, Postumius, Postumus, Praetextatus, Primus, Priscus, Procillus, Proculus, Promotus, Publicola, Pulcher, Pullus, Pupillus, Purpurio, Quadratus, Quartus, Quinctilianus, Quintilianus, Quintus, Quirinus, Ravilla, Regillus, Reginus, Regulus, Restitutus, Rex, Rufinus, Rufus, Rullianus, Russus, Rutilus, Sabinus, Salinator, Saloninus, Salvidienus, Sanga, Sapiens, Saturninus, Saverrio, Scaeva, Scaevola, Scaurus, Scipio, Scribonianus, Secundus, Sejanus, Seneca, Septimus, Serapio, Serranus, Servilianus, Severus, Sextus, Silanus, Silianus, Silius, Silo, Silus, Silvanus, Sophus, Spinther, Spurinus, Strabo, Successus, Sulla, Sura, Syra, Syrus, Tamphilus, Tappulus, Taurus, Telesinus, Tertius, Tertullianus, Thalna, Theophilus, Thermus, Thurinus, Tibullus, Titianus, Torquatus, Trachalus, Traianus, Tranquillus, Tremulus, Troucillus, Trupo, Tubero, Tucca, Tuditanus, Tullus, Turpilianus, Turrinus, Varro, Varus, Vatia, Verrucosus, Verus, Vespillo, Vestinus, Vetus, Victor, Vitalus, Vitrasius, Vitulus, Volero, Volesus, Vulso Female Names In Classical Rome, women did not use the tria nomina. At the start, they used only the female form of their father’s nomen. To distinguish between daughters who otherwise would have the same name, two could be called maior and minor (elder and younger), and more than that told apart by ordinal numbers. For instance, a second daughter in a family from the gens Antonius might be Antonia Minor, and a fourth daughter from the gens Lucretius might be Lucretia Quarta. By the end of the Republic, a woman usually had two names, the feminine forms of her father’s nomen and cognomen. For instance, the daughter of Quintus Caecilius Metellus was Caecilia Metella. A woman did not gain her own cognomen, but on marriage she might add the genitive form of her husband’s cognomen to her name. When Caecilia Metella married Publius Licinius Crassus, she became Caecilia Metella Crassi. To construct a name for a female Roman citizen, first choose either a nomen or a nomen and cognomen: her father’s if his name has already been assigned. Add a birth-order name (maior, minor, or an ordinal) if she has sisters and is unmarried, then change the endings to feminine form. In general, the masculine -us, -o, -a changes to feminine -a, -a, -ina, respectively, as in Iulius/Iulia, Scipio/ Scipia and Agrippa/Agrippina. Such a name might be made a diminutive by adding -illa to the stem of the nomen or cognomen: Drusus/Drusa/Drusilla, Cato/Cata/Catilla. For a married woman, add -i to the stem of her husband’s cognomen to form the last part of her name. Other Naming Practices A family with no male heir would often adopt a (younger) son from another family. The adopted man took all his adoptive father’s names, but might add a cognomen. This was usually formed by adding -anus or -inus to the stem of his former nomen (or rarely, his cognomen). For instance, on his adoption by Gaius Iulius Caesar, Gaius Octavius became Gaius Iulius Caesar Octavianus. He was later granted the agnomen Augustus by the Roman Senate, and became Gaius Iulius Caesar Augustus Octavianus. When he became ‘the first among equals’, he became Imperator Caesar Augustus; Caesar became a title, like Augustus, used by subsequent rulers. (The new praenomen, a military term, gave us the later word ‘emperor’, just as Caesar became ‘kaiser’ and ‘tsar’.) A slave might keep his own name or be given a new one, usually a nickname, by his master. If needed, his formal name would be that name, the genitive form of his master’s nomen and praenomen, then servus. Tiro, the slave of Marcus Tullius Cicero, was officially Tiro Tullii Marci servus. A provincial without citizenship used a single name according to his or her culture. Citizens of other states, peregrini, used their personal names and patronymics (in Latin form). Freed slaves and enfranchised foreigners took the nomen and cognomen of their patron (former master or citizen sponsor), adding their own name as a cognomen. Cicero’s slave, Tiro, became Marcus Tullius Tiro on manumission. A full official name indicated descent (filiation) and tribe as well (Marcus Tullius Marci filius Marci nepos Cornelia tribu Cicero: Marcus Tullius Cicero, the son of Marcus, the grandson of Marcus, of the Cornelian tribe), but this would only be used on accession to the Senate or the like. Notes Some praenomina (Appius, Mamercus, Servius) tended to be used only by certain patrician families, and there were other, very rare, praenomina. Gaius could be written as Caius in archaic inscriptions, but was the same name, and pronounced the same. A native Roman nomen ends in -ius; others are Etruscan and foreign. The Romans had only one name in legendary times (Romulus, Remus). In the earliest historical records, a praenomen and nomen were used. There were more praenomina, such as the Numa, Tullus, and Ancus used by the old kings. Women used the praenomen and nomen of their father in feminine form (Gaia Iulia, for instance). Households were smaller, and one name was enough for a single slave: if not a nickname (invariable for girls), it might be a possessive (using the stem of the master’s nomen plus -ipor, for example, Marcipor, meaning Marcus’ boy). In the Republic, aristocratic Romans used all three names, but early on plebians (non-gentes, including those nobles who had fallen from grace) often used only two: praenomen and cognomen, the latter often a family name (Gaius Marius, Gnaeus Pompeius). Commoners might get by with one or the other. In the Empire, women tended to keep their names upon marriage. There was slightly more freedom in names, with the cognomina of younger daughters being a diminutive taken from the nomina of mother, grandmother, and so on. The Roman name system frayed gradually from the later Republic on. Rarely at first, noble families revived old praenomina and used cognomina as praenomina (Faustus Cornelius Sulla, Paullus Fabius Maximus, Africanus Fabius Maximus). After the Classical period, a nomen such as Cassius or Flavius might also be used for a praenomen. Someone’s nomen and cognomen might be used in reverse order, and extra cognomina were commoner. The tria nomina usefully distinguished citizens from the rest: when Caracalla granted citizenship to nearly everyone in the Empire in the 3rd century, they lost their merit. In time they were abandoned, and single names came back into use. Jewish Modern Jewish naming patterns are the same as those for English: one or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Isaac Shiloh. After the Babylonian and Roman conquests of Palestine, the Jews dispersed throughout Europe for many centuries. Over this time, they used names of virtuous Biblical characters, perhaps a tenth of the 1400 names in the Old Testament. Names from surrounding cultures were used in addition: sometimes two personal names were given, a Jewish and a secular one, so that Reuben Oswald might have been Reuben to his family and Oswald when dealing with non-Jewish ‘gentiles’. The Jews traditionally used patronymics: ‘ben’ after the father’s personal name meant ‘son of’ and ‘bat’ meant ‘daughter of’. For instance, the son and daughter of Abraham might have been known as Jacob ben Abraham and Rebecca bat Abraham. They adopted inheritable family names as the countries where they lived did. When Israel was formed, its immigrants were urged to use Hebrew names, both traditional and modern. Some names of foreign origin were kept, particularly for family names, but many new ones were invented, translated, and adapted (for instance, from places such as Galilee and Shiloh). Patronymics were reintroduced as family names: ‘ben’ was attached to a personal name (Ben-David, say) to create an inheritable surname used by both males and females of the family. Once shunned personal names were taken, of Old Testament delinquents (Avshalom, Yoram), pagans (Hagar, Nimrod), and gods (Anat, Nevo). Occasionally names changed gender, such as Elisha (it used to be male, now it is almost always female, as happened with Ashley in English) or Ariel, which can be used for both sexes. Israeli parents follow current western trends in choosing novel Pronunciation names over traditional ones. The English transliterations of Hebrew should be clear enough to pronounce the names properly. Remember to pronounce final Old and new Hebrew,Yiddish, and English name forms coexist, ‘e’s (in Moshe, for instance), and that /j/ can sometimes sound and there are variant and short forms of personal names: Eliyahu, like /y/ or /b/ like /v/. If you wish to try for verisimilitude, the Elihu, Eli; Nitza, Nitzana, Nizana; Razel, Rachel; Rivka, Rebecca; language can sound very throaty, as if you were gargling with Sharai, Sarah; Yaakov, Jacob; and so on. tadpoles. Male Personal Names Common:Aaron,Avraham, Binjamin, Chaim, David, Eliyahu, Meir, Menachem, Michael, Mordechai, Moshe, Shimon, Shlomo, Shmuel, Tzvi, Yaakov,Yehudi, Yisrael, Yitzhak, Yosef Standard:Aaron, Abiah, Abraham, Adiel,Adonia, Adoniyahu, Adrial, Aharon,Amiel, Amnon, Amos, Amoz, Ariel, Arnon, Assaf, Avi, Avinoam, Avishai,Avital, Avner,Avraham, Avram,Azaria, Azriel, Barach, Ben, Benjamin, Binjamin, Binyamin, Boaz, Chaim, Chanan, Chaniel, Chanoch, Dan, Daniel, Dar, David, Dishon, Dothan, Eban, Efraim, Efron, Ehud, Elazar, Eli, Eliaz, Elihu, Elika, Eliyahu, Elkan, Enosh, Ephraim, Ephron, Esai, Ethan, Evron, Ezra, Gavriel, Gidon, Giladi, Gur, Guy, Hadar, Haim, Hanan, Haniel, Hanoch, Herschel, Hevel, Hiram, Hod, Ikabod, Ira, Isaac, Itzik, Jacob, Japheth, Jarah, Jareb, Javen, Jeriel, Joachim, Kaleb, Kalev, Kemuel, Kenan, Kolya, Laban, Lael, Leo, Levi, Malachai, Malcham, Malki, Mattaniah, Meir, Menachem, Menashya, Mered, Meshulam, Micah, Micha, Michael, Mikel, Mordechai, Moshe, Moshel, Nadav, Naim, Namir, Natan, Nechemiah, Nethaniel, Nimrod, Nissim, Noach, Oded, Omar, Omri, Oren, Peretz, Pinchas, Racham, Rafael, Rephaia, Resheph, Reuel, Reuben, Reuven, Rishon, Ron, Ruben, Salomon, Saul, Seth, Shalmai, Shalom, Shaul, Shemaria, Shemuel, Shiloh, Shimon, Shlomo, Shmuel, Telem, Temen, Tom, Tovi, Tzalmon, Tzuriel, Tzvi, Uriel, Uzi, Uzziel, Yaakov,Yakov,Yamin, Yaphet, Yarden, Yared, Yaron, Yehiel, Yehoshua, Yehuda, Yehudi, Yeriel, Yishmael, Yisrael, Yitzchak, Yitzhak, Yochanan, Yonah, Yosef, Zadkiel, Zadok, Zakur, Ze’ev, Zebulon, Zechariah, Zelman, Zohar, Zuriel, Zvi Female Personal Names Common:Aleeza, Chanah, Chava, Devorah, Haya, Ilana, Leah, Malka, Miryam, Rachel, Rina, Rivka, Ruth, Sarah, Shoshana, Shulamit, Tovah, Tzipora, Yehudit, Zahava Standard:Abigail, Abishag,Adah,Adiella,Adina, Adira,Akiva, Aleeza, Alitza, Amalyah, Amielle, Anaelle, Ariela, Arielle, Asenath, Atara, Avigayil, Aviva, Ayala, Azriela, Bariel, Basia, Batsheva, Batya, Belah, Bethel, Bethia, Bethula, Betula, Bilha, Bracha, Carmela, Carmiel, Cephirah, Cephorah, Chanah, Channah, Chava, Chenya, Cipira, Clara, Dafna, Dalya, Daniela, Davita, Debora, Deborah, Deenah, Delila, Devorah, Dina, Dinah, Dora, Dvora, Edna, Elanit, Eliana, Elisha, Elisheba, Elisheva, Elkie, Esther, Ezrela, Frieda, Gali, Ganit, Gavriela, Gavrilla, Geela, Gilah, Gurit, Hadassah, Hagia, Hana, Hannah, Hava, Haviva, Haya, Helene, Hephzibah, Huldah, Ida, Ilana, Ilanit, Irit, Ismaela, Izevel, Jaella, Jethra, Jezebela, Joela, Jora, Josefa, Judith, Karmiya, Ketura, Keziah, Leah, Levana, Levia, Liebe, Lily, Lydia, Mahalia, Malka, Mara, Margalit, Mariah, Marni, Martha, Mazal, Merav, Michal, Mina, Miri, Miriam, Miryam, Naomi, Nava, Nechama, Netaniella, Nitza, Nitzana, Nizana, Ofra, Ophrah, Ora, Paula, Penina, Rachel, Rahel, Raizel, Ranice, Raphia, Razel, Razilee, Rebecca, Rebekah, Rechel, Rina, Rivka, Ruelle, Rut, Ruth, Sabra, Sara, Sarah, Sariel, Shamirah, Sharai, Sharon, Shifra, Shiloh, Shimona, Shira, Shirley, Shoshana, Shulamit, Sonia, Sophie, Sylvia, Tamar, Tikva, Tirzah, Tovah, Tzipora, Tziporah, Uriella, Varda, Victoria, Yael, Yaffa, Yehudit, Yemina, Yoela, Yosefa, Zahava, Zillah, Zipporah, Ziva, Zorah, Zylpha Family Names Following the standard list of surnames (a mixture of old and new), there are lists for typical old names (used before Israel was established) and new names, for those who want the two separate. Both sorts can be found in Israel. Common: Abraham, Ashkenazi, Cohen, Einstein, Goldbach, Goldberg, Horowitz, Isaacs, Kahane, Kohn, Kramer, Landauer, Levy, Loewe, Raban, Rosenberg, Rosenthal, Salomon, Sassoon, Shaltiel Standard:Abraham,Abrams,Abramsky,Abramson, Adler,Afek,Aharoni,Apfel, Ascher,Ashkenazi, Balsam, Barak, Bashevis, Baum, Berkovic, Bezalel, Biton, Blomstein, Bomberg, Brasch, Bruck, Büchler, Chertok, Cohen, Danielovitch, Datz, Davidson, Dayan, Deutsch, Djemal, Dobias, Dreyfuss, Eckstein, Einstein, Eisner, Eldar, Epstein, Eshel, Eshkol, Federman, Feinstein, Fiedler, Fleischer, Fraenkel, Friedlander, Friedman, Gadi, Ganani, Gartner, Gelper, Gerlis, Gerstein, Gluckstein, Goldbach, Goldberg, Goldbloom, Goldman, Goldschmidt, Gollancz, Gottesdiener, Gottesman, Greenberg, Grossman, Gruber, Gryn, Haber, Hadar, Halban, Halevi, Hartog, Haza, Hefetz, Helfgott, Hershon, Hertzig, Herzl, Horowitz, Imbar, Isaacs, Isaacson, Ish-Shalom, Jacob, Jacobsen, Jakubowicz, Jerayesh, Josephs, Kahan, Kahane, Kahn, Kanitz, Kantor, Katz, Kedar, Kempinski, Kobler, Kohen, Kohn, Kolodny, Kostiner, Kramer, Landauer, Laski, Lehmann, Levi, Levine, Levinsky, Levinson, Levy, Lieberman, Lipman, Litvinov, Loewe, Mandelbaum, Mann, Matz, Mazar, Meir, Mendel, Metz, Miron, Morris, Nenbauer, Nitzan, Oded, Okin, Ophir, Pazy, Pekarsky, Peres, Persky, Pick, Pollack, Posner, Raban, Rabin, Rabinowicz, Reuben, Rosen, Rosenbaum, Rosenberg, Rosenthal, Roth, Rothschild, Rubin, Rubinstein, Ruskin, Salbstein, Salomon, Saltzmann, Samuel, Samuels, Sandler, Sassoon, Schalit, Schiff, Schneider, Segal, Shahar, Shaltiel, Shameel, Shamir, Shapiro, Sharansky, Sharett, Sheinfeld, Shiloh, Shmerkin, Shoshan, Shulman, Silverstein, Singer, Spiro, Spitzer, Steiner, Stiebel, Sylvester, Uki, Weber, Weidenseld, Weizmann, Wolf, Yadin,Yakobovitch, Yaniv, Yedidya, Yoffey, Zahavy, Zeiman Old:Abraham, Admor,Ashkenazi,Azoulai, Baer, Bergmann, Berkovitz, Berlin, Bernstein, Burg, Cahen, Cederbaum, Chazan, Cohen, Davidson, Dayan, Deutsch, Diamond, Diener, Edelstein, Eichler, Einstein, Elfenbein, Epstein, Feigenbaum, Feld, Finkelstein, Fischer, Frankenburger, Freud, Fried, Friedman, Gabbai, Glober, Gold, Goldbach, Goldberg, Goldstein, Gorodish, Gottesdiener, Gottesfreund, Graff, Grin, Gruen, Halperin, Hamburger, Heifetz, Herbst, Hirsch, Horowitz, Isaacs, Kagan, Kahane, Kalb, Kaplan, Katz, Kauffmann, Kenig, Kluger, Kofman, Kogan, Kohn, Kramer, Kravitz, Kristal, Lamdan, Landauer, Lando, Lazarus, Leiserowitch, Lempel, Lerner, Levi, Levy, Lewin, Lifshitz, Loewe, Loewenberg, London, Mandel, Maze, Melamed, Mendelssohn, Meyer, Meyerson, Morgenstern, Morgenthau, Mozes, Nussbaum, Parnas, Perlman, Persky, Raban, Rabin, Rappoport, Resnick, Richter, Rosen, Rosenberg, Rosenstein, Rosenthal, Rothschild, Rubens, Ruehig, Sacerdoti, Salomon, Schatz, Scheiner, Schlossberg, Schneider, Schneiderman, Schub, Schuster, Segal, Shalit, Shaltiel, Shammes, Shapiro, Shechter, Shertok, Shkolnik, Shneur, Shulsinger, Silver, Simon, Singer, Sofer, Soloveitchik, Stahlmann, Steinberg, Tannenbaum, Uzan, Waldman, Wassermann, Weil, Weingarten, Weinstock, Weintraub, Wiener, Wilner, Wolf, Wolfson, Yerushalmi New:Agassi, Alon, Amiti, Ashkenazi, Bar-Hama, Bar-Ilan, Barak, Bechor, Ben-Asher, Ben-Chaim, Ben-David, Ben-El’azar, Ben-Eliezer, Ben-Gurion, Ben-Meir, Ben-Menachem, Ben-Moshe, Ben-Reuven, Ben-Shahar, Ben-Shimon, Ben-Tzvi, Ben-Ze’ev, Ben-Zeev, Caspi, Caspit, Chacham, Chayat, Chazan, Dayag, Dayagi, Di-Nur, Eilat, Einav, Erez, Eshkol, Even-Chen, Even-Shushan, Even-Zahav, Gavish, Gefen, Gilboa, Giron, Golan, Golani, Gonen, Hadar, Hallahmi, Har-Arieh, Har-El, Har-Even, Har-Ish, Har-Lavi, Har-Paz, Har-Segor, Har-Zahav, Harari, Inbar, Inbari, Ish-Shalom, Kerem, Lamdan, Lapid, Lavi, Luz, Ma’oz, Maimon, Me’ir, Meir, Moshe, Navon, Ner, Netenyahu, Oren, Ovadia, Oz, Peled, Peres, Rozen, Sadeh, Sandlar, Sasson, Sela, Shachar, Shaked, Shalom, Sharett, Sharon, Shelah, Shenhav, Shimon, Shinar, Shochat, Shoshani, Simcha, Stavi, Stiller, Tal-Shachar, Tamari, Tapuchi, Tapuzi, Vardi, Vilna’i, Ya’ari, Yahalom, Yavin, Yedidya, Yehezkel, Zahavi, Zamir, Zimri, Zohar Hebrew The names here are biblical: mostly Hebrew, with a few personal name meant ‘son of’ and ‘bat’ meant ‘daughter of’. For borrowings from Aramaic, Phoenician, and so on. Many are still instance, the son and daughter of Ahab might have been known in use. In the beginning, many names could be used by both as Eli bin Ahab and Ruth bat Ahab. The Old Testament refers to sexes (Noah, for instance), but precedent was usually followed many females just as ‘daughter of X’. You can follow suit if you once someone famous bore the name. run short of female names and male names alone won’t do. Prefix a male name with ‘bat’ or ‘bath’ (as in Bathsheba) to get names Personal names only were used, with bynames as necessary, like Bathizhar, Batlael, and so on. especially patronymics: in ancient times ‘bin’after the father’s Male Personal Names Common:Aaron, Abraham, Daniel, David, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, Samuel, Saul, Solomon Standard:Aaron, Abel, Abidah, Abner,Abraham, Abram, Absalom, Adam, Ahab, Ahisamach, Ahithopel, Aholiab, Aka,Amelek, Ammiel, Ammihud,Amos,Amram,Anah, Ard, Arodi,Asher,Asshurim, Balaam, Balak, Bela, Benjamin, Beor, Bezaleel, Buz, Cain, Caleb, Carmi, Dan, Daniel, David, Dishan, Dishon, Dumah, Eher, Eldaah, Eleazar, Eli, Eliab, Elijah, Eliphaz, Elizaphan, Elizur, Ephah, Ephraim, Ephron, Er, Esau, Ezekiel, Ezer, Ezra, Gad, Gaddiel, Gaham, Gamaliel, Gern, Gershom, Gershon, Geuel, Gideon, Habakukk, Haggi, Ham, Hamor, Hanoch, Helon, Hezron, Hilkiah, Hirah, Hosea, Hur, Huz, Igal, Isaac, Isaiah, Ishmael, Ishuah, Israel, Issachar, Ithamar, Izhar, Jaalam, Jacob, Jahzeel, Jair, Japheth, Jehosaphath, Jemuel, Jephunneh, Jeremiah, Jeroboam, Jesse, Jethro, Jetur, Joab, Job, Jobab, Joel, Jokshan, Jonah, Jonathan, Joram, Joseph, Joshua, Josiah, Judah, Kedar, Kedemah, Kemuel, Kohath, Korah, Laban, Lael, Levi, Lot, Machi, Machir, Malachi, Manasseh, Medan, Merari, Mibsam, Micah, Midian, Mishma, Mizzah, Moab, Mordecai, Moses, Nahath, Nahor, Nahum, Naphish, Naphtali, Nebajoth, Nehemiah, Nepheg, Ner, Noah, Nun, Obadiah, Ocran, Ohab, Oshea, Pagiel, Palti, Pharez, Phinehas, Reuben, Reuel, Rosh, Samson, Samuel, Saul, Shammath, Shaphat, Shedeur, Shelah, Sheth, Shobal, Shuni, Simeon, Solomon, Uri, Uriah, Uzziel, Zaavan, Zadok, Zebulun, Zedekiah, Zelophehad, Zerab, Zibeon, Zichri, Zimran, Zimri, Ziphion, Zoar, Zohar Female Personal Names Common:Abigail, Deborah, Esther, Hannah, Judith, Rachel, Rebekah, Ruth, Sarah, Shoshana Standard: Aberah, Abigail, Abishag, Abital, Adah, Agiah, Aholibamah, Aksah, Anah, Asenath, Atarah, Athaleya, Azubah, Baara, Basemath, Bashemath, Bathsheba, Bathshua, Beulah, Bilhah, Cozbi, Deborah, Delilah, Dinah, Ednah, Eglah, Elisheba, Eprathah, Esther, Hadassah, Hagar, Hamutal, Hannah, Havvah, Helah, Hephzibah, Hodesh, Hoglah, Huldah, Jochebed, Judith, Kerenhappuch, Keturah, Keziah, Leah, Maacah, Mahalath, Mahlah, Marah, Martha, Mary, Matred, Meheytabel, Merab, Michal, Milkah, Miriam, Naamah, Naarah, Naomi, Nehushta, Noah, Orpah, Peninnah, Rachel, Rahabiah, Rebekah, Reumah, Rhoda, Rizpah, Ruth, Salome, Sarah, Sarai, Seuyah, Sheerah, Shekhem, Shelomith, Shemariyah, Shiprah, Shoshana, Shuah, Tabitha, Tamar, Taphath, Timna, Tirzah, Vashti, Yael, Yedidah, Yerusha, Yeshosheba, Zarah, Zebidah, Zeruah, Zillah, Zilpah, Zipporah Phoenician The Phoenicians were ancient Mediterranean traders, who Many could be used for either sex. Some standard names did not ranged down the coast of Africa and likely to the British Isles. refer to a deity, and most of these were specifically male or They created the first writing system using letters around the female. 13th century BC. Their city-states, such as Tyre and Sidon, founded colonies around the Mediterranean, mostly from the The Phoenician did not use inheritable family names. If 11th to the 9th century BC. Carthage was the most eminent, and necessary, they used bynames, especially patronymics and other became the major Phoenician trading port after Tyre fell to the relationship names: ‘bin’ meant ‘son of’, ‘bat’meant ‘daughter Babylonians in the 6th century BC. After a history of conflict, of’, and ‘asht’ meant ‘wife of’. For instance, Hanno’s son and Carthage fell to Rome, and became part of the Roman Africa daughter might have been known as Har bin Hanno and Besho Province in the 2nd century BC. The names here are from various bat Hanno, and his wife as Arishat asht Hanno. times and colonies to that point. Pronunciation Most (perhaps 4 in 6) names were theophoric, incorporating The Phoenician transcriptions here can be pronounced as if the Phoenician gods and some Assyrian and Egyptian ones. These words were English, for the most part. The /q/ is slightly throaty were of the usual type: son of X, gift of X, and so on; for /k/. The /h/ is strongly aspirated, almost a /ch/, whether at the example, Hannibaal is Hanni (grace of) + Baal (god or lord). start or end of names. Stand-alone Names Male:Abbir,Akbar,Anzor,Azor, Barqan, Binur, Bodi, Dabar, Deshi, Gamar, Gan, Gashur, Girhekal, Gisco, Hanesh, Har, Hesheqem, Hirrom, Kinesh, Luli, Namar, Sasa, Sedeq, Shapan, Shemago, Tagi, Taom, Tirsh, Yala, Zabul, Zamir, Zikar, Zizy Either: Hanni, Hanno, Shema, Shuma Female:Akbarit, Aldeshi, Arishat, Ashtnamit, Bannit, Batnam, Batnamit, Berrekt, Besho, Eldeshi, Gaddnam, Giddnamit, Girgishi, Girgishit, Hagnit, Hegnit, Heled, Heshequemit, Huld, Huldel, Kabidit, Kineshit, Namgidda, Namitgadda, Phamea, Shamohit, Tamemit, Tennit, Tirisht, Toara, Yatunit Theophoric Names Form a name from two elements. Roll d4: (1-3) prefix + deity, (4) deity + suffix. Some prefixes are exclusively male or female (generally meaning ‘son of’, ‘daughter of’, and so on), as noted. Example names: Ha + Melqart = Hamelqart, Yahazi + Baal = Yahazibaal (Hamilcar and Jezebel, in the forms in which they came down to us). Common: Prefix: Ab, Bod, Hanni, Hanno, Hasdru, Matten/Mattenit. Deity: Ashtart, Baal, El, Melqart. Suffix: ba’li, berek, sha, yaton. Prefix Male:Abd, Ah, Ash, Bin, Giri, Matten Either:Ab, Aduni,Ahal, Azi,Azor, Berek, Bod, Budi, Gadd, Gidd, Ha, Ham, Hanni, Hanno, Hasdru, Hepsi, Hi, Hur, Idni, Mattan, Miggen, Niqma, Niqmi, Palti, Rom, Sha, Shamo, Shapati, Shillem, Shipitti, Shipti, Shumir, Sikar,Taman, Ur,Yahazi, Yahi,Yahon,Yakon, Yaptih, Yaton, Yeda, Yit, Yuhaww Female:Amot,Ahot,Asht, Bat, Girit, Mattenit Deity Phoenician:Aduna (Tammuz),Asherat, Ashtart/Astoret, Baal Hammon, El, Eshmun, Haddad/Addad, Hodesh, Melqart/ Melkart, Magon, Pumi, Sapon, Shamash, Shihar, Shilam/Shulmani, Sid/Sydek/Zid, Tennit/Tanit Titles: Baal, Baalat, Milk, Milkat Other: Api, Bastet, Hor, Horon, Isit/Auset, Osar/Ausar Suffix Either: alahy, azor, ba’li, berek, gadd, gidd, gon, han, harum, hilq, hiwwiyo, iashapa, iha, ilu, ishapat, kin, koon, maluk, rom, saloh, sedeq, sha, shalep, shamo, shillek, shillem, shipit, shumir, sikar, turi, yahon, yashupu, yaton, yit, yuhaww, zabul Notes A deity, often the one most venerated in a place, could also be known by an honorific: Baal, Baalat, Milk, Milkat (lord, lady, king, queen). The title was part of some gods’ names: Baal Hammon, Melqart (king of the city). The various selections are not exhaustive. There were many more gods, for instance. You may even wish to add some from fiction .such as Flaubert’s Moloch, for nasty types. There are pleasanter fictional names too, such as that of Flaubert’s princess Salammbô, from the eponymous novel. Dido was the name taken by the legendary queen of Carthage when she founded the city; according to Virgil, she was originally a princess of Tyre, where she had the name Elissa (probably Elsha). Aboriginal The Australian Aboriginal peoples were nomadic hunter-Pronunciation gatherers living in small family groups. Aboriginal names are The many different Australian languages have similar sounds. vocabulary items and phrases in their hundred or so surviving The vowels have a similar range of values to those in English, languages; many can be used for both sexes. and the names are written more or less phonetically. There is, though, very little distinction between /p/ and /b/, /t/ and /d/, or / Modern Aborigines usually have English names, with surnames k/ and /g/; try to make them shade towards each other. The /j/ is that may be translations of traditional names, including totemic pronounced as the consonant /y/. The /ng/ sounds like that in animals or plants. The names included here are a mix of old ‘singer’; the /ny/ is like that in ‘Anya’. recorded names and revived names (often place names) from various tribes. Male Personal Names Adoni,Akama,Allambee, Amaroo,Apari, Arunta, Balun, Banjora, Bardo, Barega, Barwon, Berrigan, Burnu, Burnum, Burraga, Cobar, Coorain, Daku, Darel, Derain, Dheran, Djakapura, Djerrkura, Dorak, Dural, Ganan, Gatjil, Gelar, Girra, Jarrah, Jerara, Jirra, Kalti, Kami, Kari, Killara, Kolet, Kolya, Konol, Koora, Koorong, Kulan, Lowan, Maka, Malalapuy, Mallee, Manalagenna, Mandu, Mangajay, Mani, Marron, Matari, Mearann, Miki, Minar, Minmara, Miro, Mitapuyi, Mogo, Monti, Mowan, Mulga, Mungulu, Mutinya, Myall, Nalong, Nambur, Nardu, Narrah, Natan, Nerang, Ngampapakatju, Ngaynya, Nioka, Nowra, Nuni, Odern, Orad, Parri, Pindan, Pindari, Tana, Taree, Tjun, Tjupurula, Tuart, Uwan, Walanya, Warra, Warrain, Warrigal, Warrun, Wirrin, Woorak, Woorin, Yarran, Yileen, Yuka, Yuma Female Personal Names Akala,Alinga, Allira, Alkina, Alkira, Allora, Allunga,Anka, Apanie, Arika,Arinya, Arnurna,Arora, Bakana, Banjuk, Barina, Bega, Bertana, Binda, Burilda, Coorah, Corowa, Darri, Eerin, Ekala, Gedala, Ghera, Gulara, Guyra, Gymea, Hanya, Iluka, Jannali, Jarrah, Jiba, Jirra, Kadee, Kaiya, Kala, Kalinda, Kamballa, Karri, Karuah, Katapi, Kateena, Katyin, Kiah, Kimba, Kirra, Kolora, Koorine, Kora, Korra, Kyeema, Kylie, Leewana, Lemana, Loorea, Lowan, Manyi, Mayrah, Meera, Merri, Miah, Mirrin, Moree, Myuna, Nadda, Nama, Nara, Niley, Nyaputja, Nyurapaya, Olba, Olono, Oola, Orana, Pangari, Pengana, Pierah, Rhimi, Rikali, Rininga, Tarana, Tarra, Tinka, Tirranna, Tjanangu, Tjukapati, Toora, Ulla, Umina, Waratah, Warrah, Warrina, Weema, Wilga, Willa, Wyuna, Yani, Yara, Yaralla, Yarrah, Yindi, Yooralla, Yungara Family Names Family names were not used prior to European settlement. Many of these are place names, and can also be used as personal names. Amarco, Aroona, Attunga, Awoonga, Baranbali, Barkala, Bimbadeen, Bimbimbie, Binnowee, Boanyoo, Bultarro, Bundaleer, Cooinda, Elandra, Girawheen, Givinganna, Glaginye, Goolagong, Illalangi, Illawarra, Illoura, Illuka, Japaljami, Jingella, Kareela, Karinya, Karribi, Kinta, Kurrajong, Kyeema, Mallaganee, Marawarpina, Marika, Mawarra, Miri-miri, Moonya, Mpetyane, Mudjidell, Munyarryun, Napangardi, Ofanengaue, Omaroo, Oodlawirra, Orana, Paringa, Petyarre, Tanjenong, Tapai, Taworri, Tirrike, Ulmarra, Wambiri, Wangara, Warrawong, Warrina, Warriwarri, Weemala, Worosun, Wubugwubuk, Wululu, Yarrabee, Yeramba, Yunipingu, Yuranga Languages A list of some Aboriginal languages and language groups, past and present, is provided. They usually correspond to tribe names. For instance, Jiwarli is the language of the Jiwarli people of Western Australia. Many variants occur. Aluritja, Andiljuagwa, Anjula, Arabana, Aranda, Arrernte, Awabakal, Ayapathu, Biriga, Bundjalung, Bunuba, Darug, Djapu, Djerag, Djiru, Dyirbal, Gangaleta, Garadjeri, Garawa, Gooniyandi, Gugadji, Gugu-Nyungu, Gugu-Wara (Koko-Warru), Gugu-Yalanji, Gumatj, Gumbaynggir, Gunavidji, Gundu-Munding, Gunggara, Gunggari, Gupapuyngu, Guugu Yimithirr (Koko-Yimidir), Ilgar, Inggada, Iwaidja, Jagera (Yuragubul), Jiwarli, Julbre, Kakudu, Kalali, Kamilaroi (Gamilaraay), Kaurna, Khunganji (Gonggandji), Koko-Bera, Koko-Bujun, Koko-Jibida, Koko-Mindjen, Kulai, Kutthung, Larakia, Lumbulum, Mawng, Meriam Mir, Mineng, Mudbura, Murngin, Murrinh-Patha, Narrungga, Ngadjon, Ngalkbun, Ngarrindjeri (Jaralde), Ngiyampaa, Njunjul, Noongar, Paakantyi, Pakanh, Palawa Kani, Pibelmen, Pitjantjara (Pitjantjatjara), Pitjantjatjara, Pitta Pitta, Rainbarngo, Thaayorre (Tyore), Tjapukai (Djabugai), Ungarinjin, Uw Olkola, Uw Oykangand, Wagiman, Waka-Waka (Waga-Waga), Wambaya, Wangkatha, Wanyi, Wardaman, Warlpiri, Warrungu, Warumungu, Wemba Wemba, Whadjuk, Wik-Munkan, Wiradjuri, Woi Wurrung, Wolmeri, Worgadj, Worora, Wulgulu (Olgolo, Olkolo), Wunambal, Yabbagoola, YagarYagar,Yandrruwandha, Yanyuwa, Yanyuwa (Janjula, Yanyula), Yiddindji, Yindjibarndi, Yirkai, Yokanji (Jirgandji), Yolngu, Yorta Yorta, Yugambeh, Yukulta, Yuulngu (Yulngu, Yolngo) Papuan The inhabitants of Papua New Guinea are mostly native capital and similar areas, with a Papuan or European first name, Papuans, with a Melanesian mix in the coastal regions. Papua then a clan or tribe name as a family name. New Guinea’s difficult interior terrain - isolated valleys amid rugged mountains - led to numerous small, separate tribes and Pronunciation languages (800+, not counting dialects). The one thing that can be said for certain is that the words are not pronounced like English! In general, though: all vowels are Often only a personal name is used. In the Western Highlands, sounded, including a final ‘e’. The /e/ rhymes with ‘hey’, and the the name pattern is tribe name (+ clan name, if any) + personal /a/ is long, as in ‘art’. The /i/ is a long /ee/ sound, and /o/ and /u/ name, the last preceded by ‘Amp’ (woman) if the bearer is female. are also long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ respectively. An Most personal names can be used by both sexes. apostrophe breaks vowels into syllables or, at the start of a word, is a short vocal stop. A selection of names is given here from a few tribes. In modern times, European names and naming patterns are in use in the Male Personal Names Agaundo, Agolave, Akamo, Amborn, Ataiamelaho, Barunoma, Buassi, Endemongo, Ewunga, Eza’e, Gande, Gasowe, Gena, Gesupo, Goiba, Hari, Heiro, Hepu, Imulan, Kaglnogl, Kai, Kaura, Kiakoa, Kispe, Klimbil, Koin, Kolta, Kombagle, Komugl, Kopol, Korpore, Korul Korul, Kravia, Kuan, Kubal, Kut, Loo, Lowai, Maba, Mare, Miok, Miti, Mori, Namborn, Nanganbia, Nembil, Nikints, Ninji, Nonggorr, Nori, Obaneso, Obi, Okame, Opa, Ope, Osiro, Ot, Owa, Pal, Pena, Penapul, Peng, Peone, Pinjinga, Pinketa, Pisine, Pok, Pora, Powa, Pupun, Rebia, Rumint, Seriate, Sinamoi, Sole Sole, Subul, Taglba, Teatakan, Titip, Towa, Tugl, Tupia, Ulaline, Ulta, Varnu, Vojavona, Wager, Wai, Wak, Wan, Wena, Wingti, Yaga, Yasa, Yokumul Female Personal Names Biam, Dau, Ife, Jara, Kenga Kama, Koina, Kumbi, Kwimbe, Manci, Marpa, Meta, Nemong, Rossa, Sirizo, Wenta, Yerema Tribe and Clan Names Akelika, Akia, Ali,Andagalimp,Asaro, Babo, Baito, Chimbu, Dagina, Enga, Enuma, Gaima, Gavey, Gerigl, Gopie, Goroka, Gumba, Jokuri, Kainaro, Kana, Kentiga, Kepagane, Kerika, Khaswaho, Kimba, Kirupano, Kize Kize, Kominika, Komp, Kondon, Konia, Kopia, Koritoia, Korua, Kubal, Kubarl, Kumai, Kumi, Kwipi, Maasi, Maepkang, Maira, Mirani, Mogumand, Mokei, Mukuka, Naia, Nambuka, Napornga, Narmu, Ndika, Nengka, Nuia, Onguglo, Opramb, Penambe, Pulu, Rompinjimp, Ulka, Wahgi, Wakit, Wamp, Waria, Wera, Wia, Yamka, Yanopa Languages Many of the languages of Papua New Guinea are names of tribes or locations (often both). A number are included here so you can use them as such names if you need to - or, indeed, use them as extra male or female personal names. Abaga, Abau, Adzera,Agarabi, Agob, Aiku, Ainbai, Aion,Akolet, Akrukay,Alatil, Amaimon, Amanab, Ambulas, Ampeeli-wojokeso, Anam, Andarum, Anem, Angaatiha, Angal Enen, Angor,Anjam, Anor,Ap Ma, Apalik, Arafundi, Arapesh, Are, Aribwatsa, Arifama.miniafia, Arop-sissano, Aruek, Asaro’o, Asat, Aturu, Auwe, Awa, Awar,Awiyaana, Awun, Bahinemo, Baimak, Baluan-pam, Banaro, Barai, Bargam, Bariji, Barok, Baruya, Bauwaki, Bebeli, Bemal, Bepour, Biem, Biksi, Bilakura, Bilbil, Bimin, Binahari, Binumarien, Bisis, Bitara, Biyom, Bo, Bogaya, Boikin, Bongos, Bonkiman, Bosilewa, Bragat, Breri, Budibud, Buhutu, Bukiyip, Bulu, Bun, Bunama, Burui, Busa, Changriwa, Chuave, Daga, Dano, Dawawa, Degenan, Dia, Diodio, Doga, Domu, Doromu, Doura, Duduela, Dumun, Duwet, Eitiep, Elepi, Elu, Erave, Ewage-notu, Faiwol, Fasu, Finungwa, Foi, Forak, Fuyug, Gaikundi, Gal, Ganglau, Gapapaiwa, Gasmata, Gende, Ghayavi, Gimi, Gira, Gitua, Gnau, Gogodala, Gorakor, Guiarak, Gumalu, Guntai, Guriaso, Gwahatike, Hahon, Hakö, Hamtai, Haruai, Hinihon, Hote, Humene, Iatmul, Iduna, Igom, Imbongu, Inapang, Ipiko, Isabi, Iteri, Iwal, Jilim, Kabadi, Kaiep, Kairiru, Kaki Ae, Kalou, Kamano, Kamasau, Kamberataro, Kanasi, Kandawo, Kaningra, Kanum, Kara, Karawa, Karkar-yuri, Kasua, Kaulong, Kela, Kenati, Kereaka, Kesawai, Kewa, Khehek, Kilivila, Kinalakna, Kis, Kobon, Koiali, Koitabu, Kol, Koluawawa, Kombio, Komutu, Konomala, Korafe, Koro, Kosorong, Kove, Krisa, Kube, Kumalu, Kumukio, Kunimaipa, Kuot, Kwato, Kwomtari, Kyenele, Labu, Lak, Langam, Laua, Leipon, Lembena, Lenkau, Lewada-dewara, Likum, Loniu, Lou, Lusi, Magori, Maiani, Maisin, Maiwala, Mala, Malas, Male, Mali, Malol, Mamusi, Manam, Mandara, Mandobo, Mangga, Mape, Mapos, Marik, Matepi, Matukar, Mawak, Mbo-ung, Mebu, Mehek, Melpa, Mengen, Meramera, Mian, Migabac, Minaveha, Minigir, Miu, Moikodi, Molima, Mondropolon, Morawa, Morigi, Motu, Muduapa, Mulaha, Mumeng, Muniwara, Murik, Musak, Musar, Mussau-emira, Mutum, Mwatebu, Nabi, Nagovisi, Nai, Nakanai, Nakwi, Nalik, Namia, Nara, Nauna, Nehan, Nekgini, Nend, Ngaing, Ngalum, Niksek, Nimo, Ningera, Ningil, Nomane, Notsi, Nuk, Numanggang, Nyindrou, Oksapmin, Olo, Omati, Omwunra-toqura, Ono, Ontenu, Orokaiva, Ouma, Owenia, Oya’oya, Pahi, BOOK OF NAMES 128 Panim, Papi, Parawen, Pasi, Patpatar, Paynamar, Pele-ata, Pinai-hagahai, Piva, Pouye, Psohoh, Puari, Purari, Qaqet, Rapoisi, Rawa, Rema, Rerau, Ronji, Rotokas, Saep, Saliba, Samberigi, Samosa, Saposa, Sauk, Seimat, Sene, Sengseng, Sepen, Sera, Setaman, Sialum, Sihan, Siliput, Simbali, Simeku, Sinaugoro, Sio, Sissano, Solong, Som, Sonia, Sota, Suarmin, Suena, Suki, Sumariup, Sursurunga, Tabo, Tai, Tainae, Tairuma, Takia, Tami, Tanggu, Tao-suamato, Taulil-butam, Tauya, Telefol, Teop, Tifal, Timbe, Tirio, Toaripi, Tokano, Torau, Tumleo, Turaka, Uare, Ufim, Ukuriguma, Umanakaina, Umeda, Ura, Urat, Urigina, Urimo, Usan, Usino, Utu, Valman, Vehes, Wab, Waffa, Wagi, Walio, Wampar, Wamsak, Wanap, Wantoat, Warapu, Waruna, Wasembo, Watakataui, Watam, Wedau, Were, Wiaki, Wogamusin, Wom, Wuvulu-aua, Yaben, Yagaria, Yagwoia, Yakaikeke, Yale, Yambes, Yarawata, Yau, Yaweyuha, Yei, Yele, Yerakai, Yil, Yis, Yoidik,Yopno, Zenag, Zimakani Polynesian Polynesian peoples and languages are closely related. (For example, the word for sacred or forbidden is Tahitian taboo, Maori tapu, Hawai’ian kapu.) Polynesian names are vocabulary items and phrases (some very long), most of which could be used for both sexes. If you run short, names in one category should be fine for others. Often the higher the rank, the longer the name. The languages as written use only subsets of the Roman alphabet. Note that the definite article can be a part of a name: ‘Ka’in Hawai’ian, ‘Te’in Tahitian or Maori. Prior to European contact, family names would not have been used. Modern Polynesian naming patterns are the same as those for English: one or more personal names followed by a family name, for example, Sammy Punahele. Biblical personal names are popular, but any or all parts could be native, European, or a native version of a European name. Such translations are often thought of as native. For instance, the most popular Tongan male personal names are Sione, Soane, Tevita, Tavite - their versions of John and David. In Maori, Elizabeth, George, Jeremy, John, Joseph, Rebecca, Stephen, and William become Irihapeti, Hori, Iheremia, Hone, Hohepa, Ripeka, Tipene, and Wiremu: these are common as both personal and family names. Hawai’ian Names: Pronunciation Hawai’ian: Stress is on the penultimate syllable (for all hyphenated elements too). An apostrophe breaks vowels into syllables or, at the start of a word, is a short vocal stop. All vowels are sounded, so two in a row take twice as long. The /a/ is long, as in ‘art’. The /i/ is a long /ee/ sound, and /o/ and /u/ are also long, as in ‘rope’ and ‘moon’ respectively. The /e/ rhymes with ‘hey’, the /au/ with ‘how’, and the /ai/ with ‘high’. The /w/ changes to a /v/ sound before /a/. Some examples: ‘Aiea’ is ai.Ey-ah, ‘Wiwo’ole’is wee-woh-Oh-ley, ‘Pawa’is Pah-vah, ‘Konane’is koh-Nah-ney, ‘Hawai’i’is hah-Vai-ee. Maori: The /ng/ sounds like that in singer, and the /wh/ either like that in ‘whale’, or an /f/. All vowels are sounded, including final e’s. The vowels have short and long forms, that latter usually indicated by either a double vowel or accent (a macron or diaresis). The /a/ is as in ‘uh’ or ‘art’, and /e/ as in ‘bed’ or ‘air’. The /i/ is as in ‘bit’ or ‘bead’, the /o/ as in ‘pod’ or ‘pour’, the /u/ as in ‘bull’ or ‘moon’. Hawai’ian, Tahitian, Tongan:As for Hawai’ian. These names can be used for male or female personal names, both past and present, and for current family names. Ahana,Aheahe, Ahulani, Aikau, Aipoalani, Aka, Akanahe, Akeakamai, Ala-ula, Alamea, Alani, Aloalo, ‘Alohi, ‘Alohilani, ‘Ano’i, Anuenue, Anuhea,Aouli,Aowena, ‘Au-kele, ‘E’elekoa, ‘E’epa, Ehehene, ‘Ele-hiwa, ‘Ena, ‘Ena-makani, Ha’aheo, Haili, Hakoule, Hali’a, Hanini, Hanohano, Hao, Hau’oli, Hau-kea, Hau-nani, Haukea, Haumea, Haupuuehuehu, He-pua-laha’ole, Heleloa, Hemolekekeakua, Hiwahikeiki, Hiwahiwa, Honi, Ho’okele, Ho’olai’i, Hoku-lele, Holokai, Honi, Hua-pala, Huaka, Huna-kai, Iaukea, Ihe, Ihupani, Ikaikalani, Ioelu, ‘Iolana, Ka’aona, Ka’apeha, Kaikeapona, Ka-anaana, Ka-hanu, Ka-hekili, Ka-hiki-lani, Kaha-ka-’io-i-ka.maalie, Kahakeha, Kahaku, Kahao, Kaheka, Kaheka’alohi, Kahele, Kaimi, Kalani, Kalehua, Kaulana, Kealii, Keola, Kimo, Kina, Koapaka, Konane, Kulani, Kupulau, La’a-kea, Lae’ela’e, La-ola, Lahahana, Lahiki, Lako, Lalauahi, Lalea, Lamakuu-o-ka-na’auao, Lanakila, Laua’e, Lawakua, Lei-aloha, Leilani, Lele-ua, Leo-mana, Loa, Loea, Lohe-lani, Luala’i, Mahea, Mahi’ai, Mahina, Mahinahina, Maiele, Maika’i, Maka, Maka-hi’o, Maka-lehua, Maka-nani, Makahehi, Makakai, Makakoa, Makana, Makoa, Mala’e, Malama, Mali’o, Mali’u, Malina, Maluhia, Mana’olana, Manaloa, Mano, Manono, Manu, Manuku, Mapuna, Mauli, Mea-kalia, Mea-kia’i, Mea-nui, Mea-wiwo’ole, Mehameha, Mele, Melia, Mikihilina, Mimo, Mo’i, Mo’o, Moani, Moani-lehua, Mohala, Momi, Mopua, Na-one, Na.pua, Na’eole, Nakolo, Nalu, Nan-loa, Nana’o’i’o, Nani, Nani-ahiahi, Nani-ali’i, Naninani, Nehoa, Nene-hiwa, Ni’o, Niau, Niuhi, Nohe’o, Nohea, Noho-loa, Nono, Nonohe, Ohi, ‘Olina, ‘Olino, Onaona, ‘Opua-lani, ‘Oumuamua, Pa’ahana, Pa’aloha, Pakehu, Pakeli, Pakeupali, Palanehe, Pali-loa, Pau-mau-no’ono’o, Pawa, Pi’i-kea, Pili-lani, Pilialo, Pilikua, Po’okela, Pohu, Polani, Polinahe, Polohiwa, Ponia, Pu’ali, Pua, Pua’ehu, Pua-’ala, Pua-ahi, Pua-lanalana, Pua-nani, Puahi, Pualalea, Pulelehua, Pumehana, Punahele, Punihi, Punohu, U’i-launa-’ole, Ua, Ua-kini-maka-lehua, Uakea, ‘Ula, ‘Ulili, ‘Uwao, Uwila, Wai’olu, Wai-lele, Wai-puhia, Waiakua, Wana’ao, Wehi-lani, Wiwo’ole Male Personal Names Maori:Ahu,Akuira, Aonui,Apirana, Apiranga, Arapeta, Hamiora, Hape, Hauraki, Heremata, Hiroki, Hotonui, Huirangi, Inia, Kahumanu, Kahutea, Karauria, Kerehi, Kohuru, Kupe, Manu, Manukea, Marutuaha, Matehaere, Matene, Maui, Mutu, Ngakepa, Ngati, Nunuku, Pahia, Paratene, Pareiha, Parekura, Patuone, Piri, Pou, Rakapa, Rangi, Ranginui, Rangiroa, Rangitikei, Raniera, Rawiri, bOOK OF NAMES 129 Remia, Rewi, Tahuri, Taiaho, Taiamai, Taiaroa, Taipua, Tamatea, Tane, Tangataiki, Taunui, Tautahi, Tawhaki, Tawhero, Te Rangi, Temuera, Toroa, Tuheke, Tuirirangi, Tukapa, Turupa, Tutanekai, Waikura, Waitere, Wharekete, Wherehiko, Whetuki, Whiro, Whiti, Witi Samoan: Ala’i, Apa, Falevalu, Fatu, Fiti, Laiafi, Lalo, Leasu, Losi, Mo’e, Nunu, Nu’u, Ofo, Pu’a, Saipele, Sefi, Sefita, Shimpal, Tala, Tau, Ualese, Ula, Vai Tahitian:Ahurei, Aia, Aifenua, Aini, Ariipaea, Aru, Enometua, Farerohi, Haamanemane, Hama, Haneti, Hapai, Haururu, Hiro, Itii, Mahine, Mahui, Manea, Manua, Maoae, Matafaahira, Mauaroa, Namiro, Niuhu, Nuutere, Ohatatama, Oreo, Panee, Paofai, Patii, Pihato, Punua-teraitua, Taino, Tamatoa, Tapoa, Tati, Taura-atua-i-Patea, Taute, Te-maui-ari’i, Teaatoro, Tefraaora, Teieie, Teihotu, Teohoru, Tepauarii, Tetohu, Tetumanua, Teu, Tiaau, Toa, Tuaroa, Tuhei, Tupaia, Tutahau, Uata, Ui, Uruumatata, Vaetua, Vairatoa, Vehiatua Tongan:Alama, Fepiku, Fusitua, Kalafi, Katilimomi, Maama, Manavune, Mataeula, Mele, Moeaktola, Ofa, Paea, Polutau, Salesi, Sateki, Takai, Tangaloa, Taufa’ahou, Topou, Tu’ipelehake Female Personal Names Maori: Akanui, Aroha, Awhina, Hapuriri, Haumapuhia, Hinauri, Hine, Hineari, Hinekau, Hinematioro, Hinemoa, Hinerangi, Hineroa, Hineraumati, Hinewai, Hinewehi, Hurihia, Ihipera, Kanea, Kiri, Mahina, Mahinarangi, Mairangi, Marama, Mata, Moana, Mokonui, Ngahina, Ngahuia, Ngaio, Ngaire, Nganeko, Ngataria, Ngawai, Niwareka, Pania, Puhiawe, Rahui, Rewa, Rima, Rongomai, Taranga, Te Aroha, Te Puea, Titiwhai, Tuaiwa, Tuia, Turuhira, Waiata, Wairaka, Waitohi, Whetu, Whina Samoan:Aiono, Iloai, Ata, Fetu, Iutita, Kolone, Lama, Lele, Lua, Malamaisaua, Mata, Pele, Pepe, Sa’eu, Salamasina, Seine, Suluama, Taligi, Tui’uli, Tupuasa Tahitian: Aimata, Airoro, Airoroana’a, Ari’i-manihinihi, Ariitaimai, Arororua,Auau, Fareahu, Fetefetui, Hototu, Ino Metua, ‘Itea, Marae-ura, Moe, Murihau, Patea, Pateamai, Pipiri, Poivai, Purahi, Taaroa, Taia, Tapuhote, Tauraatua, Taurua, Te-aropoanaa, Te-fete.fete-ui, Teeva, Teeva Pirioi, Tefeau, Tehaapapa, Teihotu, Temaehuata, Teraha-tetua-i-mataoa, Terero, Teri’i Tapunui, Teriitahi, Teriitua, Terite, Terito, Terito i te rai, Teroroera i Fraeroi, Tetua, Tetua-umeritini i Vairao, Tetuahuri, Tetuahuri-reiateatea, Tetuanui e Marua i te Rai, Tetuaraenui, Tetuaunura, Tetunania, Teuira, Tevarua-hoiatua, Tiipaarii, Tupuetefa i Fareroi, Ura, Vavea i Nuurua Tongan:Atu’ila [+ male names] Family Names Maori: Aramataku, Aranui, Awatere, Eruera, Hakaraia, Hakiaha, Hapuku, Haruiti, Hauora, Heke, Hekiera, Herangi, Hereora, Herewini, Heteraka, Hina, Hiroa, Hiroti, Hohaia, Hokianga, Hongi, Horomia, Hotu, Huata, Hunuia, Huriwaka, Ihaka, Kaa, Kahaki, Kahukiwa, Kaipara, Kaiwai, Karauia, Karetai, Kawhia, Kopu, Kopunui, Korako, Kuaere, Maiapoto, Mahuika, Makura, Manahi, Manihera, Maranui, Mariu, Matana, Matapirai, Maungaroa, Mikaere, Moana, Mokomoko, Morehu, Nepia, Ngamu, Ngata, Ngatoro, Paki, Papakura, Papanui, Parata, Pere, Poananga, Pomare, Potaka, Poutawera, Poutini, Puketapu, Rakiraki, Rangi, Rangitauwira, Rapihana, Ratana, Reiroa, Rewa, Rewharewha, Ropata, Ruha, Ruhinga, Ruru, Tahu, Taiaroa, Tainui, Tairua, Taiwhanga, Tangiora, Taumaunu, Taupaki, Tawhai, Te Ao, Te Aohau, Te Apiti, Te Ara, Te Atua, Te Awarau, Te Hau, Te Heuheu, Te Huia, Te Kanawa, Te Kani, Te Kauru, Te Kooti, Te Ponga, Te Titaha, Te Ua, Te Whare, Te Wiata, Temara, Terikatene, Toheriri, Tua, Tuahiwi, Tuakamo, Tuati, Turia, Wahia, Wai Kapohe, Wairau, Waitai, Waretini, Whakarua, Wharepapa, Wharerau, Whareraupo, Whenua, Whiu Samoan:Anae, Enesi, Faiive, Fanaafi, Fatialofa, Fuima, Leaai, Leilisi, Leoso, Malemo, Papalu, Safenu, Savali, Sifu, Tele, Toelau, Toleafoa, Tufele, Tuiasosopo, Tuigamala, Tuilagi, Tupua, Vaafusuaga Tongan:Afaeaki, Ahotaein, Apela, Faka’osifolau, Faletau, Fatani, Finau, Hafoka, Hatola, Hupoka, Koula, Latu, Likiliki, Lomu, Lopeti, Lotuma, Maasi, Mafileo, Mala, Meninga, Moala, Mokia, Molitika, Nalatu, Omu, Oto, Pusiaki, Sevele, Tai, Tanginoa, Tatafu, Tau, Tavioni, Tonga, Topeni, Tueti, Tuimo, Vaikona, Vaea, Vaka, Vaki Tribe Names These are the main Maori tribes; there are innumerable subtribes. Atihau, Manukorihi, Muaupoko, Ngaitahu, Ngaitai, Ngapuhi, Ngarauru, Ngati Apa, Ngati Awa, Ngati Haua, Ngati Kahu, Ngati Kahungunu, Ngati Maniapoto, Ngati Maru, Ngati Mutunga, Ngati Paoa, Ngati Porou, Ngati Raahiri, Ngati Raukawa, Ngati Ruanui, Ngati Tama, Ngati Toa, Ngati Tuwharetoa, Ngati Whatua, Puketapu, Rangitaane, Rongowhakaata, Taranaki, Te Arawa, TeAtiawa, Te Aupoouri, Te Rarawa, Tuhoe, Waikato, Whakatohea, Whanau a Apanui BOOK OF NAMES 130 Book Three epithets Epithets, titles & Groups An epithet is a descriptive word or phrase added to or substituted for a person’s name. This could be a byname bespeaking looks and tendencies or a title-like name awarded for great deeds (or acts of infamy). History gives many examples, and literature many more. Like the numberings of rulers, most historical epithets (Howel the Good, Howel the Bad) were added by historians to tell folk apart and pass comment on or make summary of their lives. Some were used by or about the living. A few epithets, by way of example: William the Conqueror,Alan the Red, Hugh the Black, Richard the Lionheart (Coeur de Lion), Edward the Black Prince, Niall of the Nine Hostages, Alexander the Great, Erik the Priest-hater, Erik Bloodaxe, Harald Graycloak, Robert the Wise, Vlad the Impaler, Sancho the Fat, Madoc the Seafarer,Amadeus the Green Count. Fiction emulates this with similar tags: the Clever, the Lean, the Laughing Magician, Redgauntlet, of the Far Travels, the Black Arrow, the Red Archer, Wormtongue, the Grey Mouser, the Traveller in Black, the Knight of the Rueful Countenance, Shadowspawn, Skywalker. Epithets are often nicknames, and take a variety of forms. Most frequent is the single descriptive term: the Good, the Bad, the Ugly; the Fox, the Lion. Next are the compact phrase-names used in Scandinavia and post-Conquest England: Bluetooth, Crackbone, Shakespear, Makepiece, Playfair,Truslove (bind wolf), Butlin (push peasant). These are usually a verb plus a noun, sometimes switched around for names like Widowmaker or Snakecharmer. The Irish used phrases like Dierdre of the Sorrows. African phrase and proverb names give other patterns. There are many real nicknames in the Medieval English section. The ones here are extended to the sorts of epithets most likely to be used by adventurers and their friends and foes in a fantastic setting - identifying persons by weapon, profession, vocation, attribute, animal, or some combination thereof. Such names are a mark of distinction, so not everyone would or should have or use one. Even in a royal line, perhaps only one in six might have a lasting byname or epithet. In general, only prominent characters would be so endowed - the leader of a band of outlaws, perhaps his chief henchmen and the odd specialist if the band were large. The lists can be widened with vocations and professions from the campaign world, noble titles, fanciful terms from the Oriental translation names section, and whatever else comes to mind. See the Inns and Taverns section, and World Builder (vol. II in this series), for further flora, fauna, and diverse items. Epithets can be used as rewards in game play - titles like Dragonslayer, Peacemaker, and so on awarded by grateful powers and principalities should make any character (and player) proud. Such bynames might also be self-granted, but the character has to live up to them! A Flock of Wild Epithets Since epithets are often defining, it is best to choose them to suit a character rather than rolling randomly, although you can choose one at random and build a character around it if you like .this works well with complex tags such as ‘Blackweb’ or ‘of the Bright Mists’, which can inspire scenarios by themselves. The table here includes some suggestions for an epithet’s general form, and you can take it from there. The character might be known by the epithet alone - the Desert Fox, Graymantle - or by his name and the epithet - Tzyle the Wary, Mazagran Oakenstaff. Compound epithets such as that latter one often sound better without ‘the’ preceding them. To generate a fantasy epithet, roll d20, consult the Epithets Table, and choose or construct it from the succeeding lists. For instance, a d20 roll of 11 means Description + Thing: we choose black and wolf from the lists, so the character is Zaydrim the Black Wolf, Zaydrim Blackwolf, or Blackwolf, whatever suits. Table 3-1: Epithets D20  Result  Examples  01-06  Description  Slippery, Blue, Wise, Strong  07-09  Thing  Grasshopper, Mouse,  Shadow, Blade  10-12  Description + Thing  Black Knight, Red Helm,  Grayknife  13-15  Action + Thing  Hackflesh, Makemaze,  Dragonslayer  16-18  Thing + Thing  Lionheart, Wormtongue,  Sunsteel  19  of the + Description  of the Pale Fires,  + Thing  of the Dire Frost  20  Phrase, Proverb  She-who-must-be-obeyed  There are a milliard possible descriptions of people and things, based on looks, traits, and so on. A ‘thing’ in the table above could be anything - a characteristic weapon, garment, or spell, a profession or vocation, or a metaphoric description (Lion instead of Brave, and beyond; metaphors are almost infinitely flexible). Don’t be limited by the suggestions in the table and lists! A near-boundless variety of epithets is possible, so only a few examples are selected, and the most common detailed. Use what is here to spur the imagination. Results can be altered easily enough if needed (Ganixitil the One-eyed to Ganixitil One-eye, and so on). Most epithets should be kept short, direct, and vivid, especially for action heroes. Vakh the Knife, maybe, but not Poldwort the Yellowish-green Glaive-guisarme - he’s liable to be slain before he finishes announcing himself. Compounds such as Blackwolf work best with short items also. Longer ones are best split and changed to the ‘of the’ construction: Maxwell Redblade, but Maxwell of the Silver Hammer. Likewise, one should usually stick to simple verbs in compounds: kill, break, lame; not exterminate, disintegrate, incapacitate, although these might work in science fiction settings. You might want to go for the more elaborate and ornate names in more refined societies. Leisured, urbane, or ironically-disposed characters can be more extravagant with syllables. One of the more opulent descriptions from the Oriental translation names section (especially a high or low one) might suit a magician: Anxe the Splendiferous, Naxe the Mordant, Xaen the Inevitable. It is better to use one epithet per name, just as bynames are are melodramatic enough to teeter on the verge of silliness. It normally used; two, as in Bristlebeard the Gneiss or Bloodaxe doesn’t take much to push them over. (“If you are indeed The Gutsplatter, are a little over the top. Use longer phrase-names Nameless Warrior, my friend, that is your name… and if you have with care (He Whose Name is But Whispered, The Bard a name, you cannot be The Nameless Warrior, can you?”) Formerly Known as Quince, The Nameless Warrior), since many General Descriptions These descriptions are grouped into pairs of opposites, covering many human attributes: Addax the Fast, Baddax the Pious, Caddax the Vulgar. More descriptive terms for basic appearance can be found in the Medieval English section. If you are using these terms for vocational tags (as in the Vain Bard), change qualities to actions if it seems more vivid (the Preening Bard). Physical: big, small; comely, ugly; fair, dark; fast, slow; fat, thin; hale, feeble; healthy, sick; lank, squat; lean, stout; strong, weak; tall, short; young, old Mental: ardent, listless; benign, malign; bold, timid; brave, craven; capricious, lawful; chaste, lewd; clever, stupid; courteous, insolent; dutiful, neglectful; fierce, gentle; gallant, spiritless; genial, aloof; good, bad; guileless, cunning; happy, sad; honest, false; hopeful, despairing; humble, vain; just, unjust; kind, cruel; lax, severe; loyal, faithless; merciful, ruthless; modest, boastful; pious, impious; pure, impure; rash, wary; resolute, irresolute; saint, sinner; selfless, selfish; sensual, ascetic; servile, proud; stubborn, yielding; warlike, peaceful; wise, foolish; witty, dull General: admirable, ridiculous; beloved, hated; cultured, uncouth; drunk, sober; elegant, clumsy; esteemed, despised; fair, foul; foppish, rough; great, paltry; famous, obscure; learned, benighted; lucky, unlucky; mean, lavish; noble, knavish; perfect, flawed; refined, coarse; rich, poor; skilful, inept; tasteful, vulgar; victor, loser Further Descriptions Some typical qualities of leaders, heroes, and villains are expanded on below, with a few simple metaphors added. Examples: Djara the Deft, Zull the Reptile, Lashrok the Grim. Bad: bad, base, brutal, corrupt, depraved, evil, foul, gross, hateful, horrid, ignoble, impure, loathsome, malevolent, mean, nasty, spiteful, squalid, sullen, surly, ugly, vicious, vile, vulgar, wicked, worthless; cur, slug, reptile, snake, toad, worm Bestial: bestial, bloodthirsty, brutish, coarse, crude, cruel, ferocious, heartless, inhuman, merciless, pitiless, rapacious, ravening, remorseless, ruthless, savage, uncivilized; beast, shark, wolf Bold: adventurous, audacious, bold, brave, courageous, daring, dauntless, fearless, gallant, heroic, intrepid, keen, manly, plucky, valiant; lion, hawk Charming: agreeable, beautiful, charming, comely, easy, elegant, fair, fine, gentle, gorgeous, graceful, handsome, lovely, pleasing, pretty, radiant; flower, jewel, rose; swan Devious: artful, canny, clever, crafty, cunning, guileful, riddling, scheming, sharp, shifty, shrewd, slippery, sly, smooth, stealthy, subtle, tricky, two-faced, wily; eel, fox, rat, spider Dextrous: adept, adroit, agile, deft, nimble, spry, supple; cat, lizard, monkey Fast: active, alert, brisk, fast, fleet, hasty, lively, quick, rapid, ready, smart, speedy, sprightly, swift, yare, yauld; bird, deer, hare Fierce: berserk, brutal, dire, eager, ferocious, fervent, fierce, fiery, forcible, furious, headstrong, raging, rash, reckless, savage, violent, wild, zealous; boar, drake (dragon), tiger, wolf Good: admirable, blameless, decent, estimable, ethical, excellent, exemplary, fair, fine, good, honest, honourable, humane, impartial, just, lawful, moral, pleasant, pure, right, righteous, true, upright, virtuous, worthy; golden Infirm: bald, bandy, blind, club-foot, crippled, crooked, cross-eyed, deaf, dumb, fat, gouty, hunchback, knock-kneed, lame, mad, one-eyed, pockmarked, sickly, simple, sluggard, stammering, toothless, wall-eyed Noble: august, dignified, distinguished, elevated, eminent, generous, grand, great, honourable, imposing, impressive, lofty, magnificent, majestic, noble, proud, splendid, stately, superior, upright, virtuous, worthy; lion, eagle Strong: able, brawny, burly, forceful, hale, hardy, healthy, lusty, manly, mighty, powerful, robust, stalwart, stout, strapping, strong, sturdy, tough, virile; ape, bear, bull Tough: bleak, doughty, dread, firm, grim, hard, hardy, harsh, resolute, rugged, severe, stalwart, stark, staunch, steadfast, stern, tough, unyielding; oak; iron, flint, steel, stone Wise: acute, astute, clever, deep, discerning, judicious, perceptive, sage, sapient, sensible, shrewd, wise; owl Hair Today, Gone Tomorrow Distinctive hair and beard styles and colours commonly serve as epithets, especially for vikings, dwarves, and the like. For the simplest type, use the colour by itself, as in Solth the Grizzled (Griz to his friends). Otherwise, add any one of the general or specific descriptions below to ‘hair’(or mane or head) or ‘beard’: Fairhair, Nohair, Blackbeard, Wrybeard. Expand this as you like, especially if folk in your campaign world dye their beards crimson, or have naturally blue hair! Colour: ashen, black, blond, brown, dark, fair, fire, flame, frost, golden, grizzle, grey, hoar, iron, red, silver, snow, white, yellow Style: braid, bristle, bushy, curly, fine, flowing, long, no, plait, short, spiky, tangle, thin, wild Hair: knot, part, slick, tow, wavy Beard: fork, full, goat, point, rope, spade, wry Plants and Animals Plant and animal epithets (Sir James the Rose, Scarvlin the Hawk) are usually metaphorical descriptions, but could refer to heraldry or perhaps some magical power (Zhuul of the Ivy). Beast: ape, bear, boar, bull, cat, deer, dog, donkey, elephant, fox, goat, grasshopper, hare, horse, jaguar, leopard, lion, lizard, mole, mouse, otter, ox, panther, rabbit, rat, scorpion, sheep, shrew, snake, spider, tiger, toad, weasel, wildcat, wolf Bird: bird, dove, eagle, falcon, goose, hawk, lark, nightingale, owl, peacock, raven, swan Fish: crab, eel, fish, minnow, octopus, pike, shark, sprat, trout, whale Magical: angel, basilisk, cyclops, devil, dragon (drake, wyrm), gargoyle, giant, goblin, griffin, harpy, nymph, ogre, phoenix, satyr, siren, sphinx, sylph, troll Plant: ash, briar, elm, flower (lily, rose), ivy, oak, rowan, thorn, toadstool, tree, willow Violence is Golden These lists are for short phrase-names of the violent Spillblood or Crackbone sort. The Slayfoe and Sundershield type are fine for most; the bloodier ones should fit less refined fighters and savage species. Verbs and nouns for each type are separated by a ‘+’. Combine a verb and noun to get a compound like Burnhand. Reverse the order and change the verb into a noun by adding -r or -er as needed to get a compound like Dragonslayer or Brainspiker from Slaydragon or Spikebrain. Note that a double -er is usually contracted in English to make it easier to say, so Splatterguts should become Gutsplatter. Play with combinations and add in more terms as you see fit. Some typical adventurers’ foes are suggested for the Slayfoe type. Crass and evil creatures like orcs (Gurkh Spillgore and kin) might feature foes like dwarf, elf, and man, just as terms might extend to Biteleg, Drinkblood, Flesheater, Manripper, and so on. Slayfoe: hack, hew, hunt, kill, master, quell, slay, slaughter, smite, strike, tame, wound + foe (demon, dragon, fiend, giant, goblin, ogre, orc, troll; bear, boar, lion, wolf) Sundershield: break, chop, cleave, crack, notch, rive, shake, shatter, shiver, smash, snap, splinter, split, sunder + blade, helm, shield, spear, staff, sword Breakbone: break, crack, crunch, shatter, shiver, snap, splinter, sunder + arm, back, bone, head, jaw, leg, limb, neck, pate, rib, skull, spine Riveheart: axe, chop, cleave, hack, hew, rive, scythe, split + body, brawn, chest, flesh, head, heart, neck, spine Loplimb: brand, burn, char, crush, lop, scorch, sear, sever + arm, foot, hand, head, leg, limb, tongue Cutthroat: cut, gash, knife, pierce, slash, slice, slit, spear, spike, spit, stab, stick + belly, brain, chest, eye, face, flesh, guts, heart, throat, vitals Spillblood: shed, spill, splash, splatter, strew + blood, bowels, brains, gore, guts, life, soul Bursteye: breach, burst, gouge, rend, rip, rupture, slit, split, tear + belly, bowels, brain, chest, eye, flesh, guts, heart, spleen Diverse, Mostly Heroic The lists here can be used for quick one-word tags - common heroic traits, weapons, and other gear (typically, visible garments such as cloaks and hats). Using two words, however, can be better. Two-word phrase-names are short and effective, and make fine adventuring epithets (and good names for magic weapons, too). The compounds can be verb and noun, adjective and noun, or two nouns. Add extra terms if need be, such as the various descriptive and violent ones above. To create an epithet, choose an apt and evocative pair of words from the lists and combine them. Examples: Redcloak, Stormblade, Ironarm, Nightmantle, Fellhand, Bluehelm, Demonbane, Iceheart, Blazepath, Brightbrow, Shadowmask, Dreamspell, Whispermist, Nightblack, Swansoul. Change order and parts of speech, as described earlier, to get Wavedancer and Runeweaver, say, from Dancewave and Weaverune. If you prefer, leave the words separate, as in Scaelorr the Silver Mage Vaidel the Far Wanderer rather than Vaidel Wanderfar. Some of the more poetic epithets - Dragonmist and the like - may not have any obvious meaning, but might inspire you to create past events, amusing anecdotes, or magical effects to explain them. Feature: bright, clear, cold, dark, deft, dire, fair, far, fast, fell, fierce, fine, fleet, free, high, hot, keen, light, long, proud, sharp, spry, strong, sure, swift, true, wild, wise Colour: black, blue, green, grey, red, white; golden, iron, silver; dark, dim, fair, pale; brown, orange, purple, yellow; azure, crimson, indigo, scarlet, tan, violet Substance: brass, bronze, copper, gold, iron, silver, steel; amber, coral, gem, jade, jewel; bone, ice, fire, stone; ash, oak, wood Travel: blaze, fare, fly, journey, ramble, ride, roam, rove, run, skim, stride, swim, travel, tread, walk, wander, wing Seek: blaze, chase, find, follow, hunt, seek, search, shadow, stalk, track Shape: build, change, create, forge, form, make, shape, spin, weave, work, wreak Other: bear, bind, bring, call, cast, climb, dance, dream, fetch, pipe, see, sing, soar, speak, strive, take, talk, watch, weave, whisper Sky: autumn, cloud, dawn, day, dusk, even, evening, mist, moon, morn, morning, night, rainbow, shadow, sky, spring, star, storm, summer, sun, twilight, weather, wind, winter Sea: billow, breaker, brine, deep, foam, main, ocean, sea, surf, swell, water, wave Land: cave, cavern, city, crag, dell, desert, earth, forest, grove, hall, hill, hinterland, isle, lake, land, march, marsh, path, plain, province, range, river, rock, sand, shore, stone, stream, tower, trail, valley, water, way, wood Weapon: arrow, axe, blade, bow, brand, claw, dagger, dart, dirk, fang, fist, flail, hammer, hand, knife, lance, mace, rod, spear, staff, sword, talon, tooth, wand, whip Worn: armour, belt, boots, cloak, cowl, feather, gauntlet, hat, helm, hood, horn, mantle, mask, robe, shield, veil Force: blaze, bolt, bonds, charm, fire, flame, force, frost, hail, haze, inferno, lightning, maze, orb, rain, rune, smoke, snow, sparks, spell, swarm, thunder, thunderbolt, wall, warp, whirlwind Idea: bane, blood, bone, chaos, dance, death, evil, doom, fame, fate, good, grief, heart, heaven, hell, home, joy, law, lie, life, nature, pain, peace, pride, sight, song, soul, spirit, thought, truth, will, woe, wrath, weird Creature: bear, demon, drake (dragon), eagle, fox, hawk, leopard, lion, raven, tiger, wolf Person: acolyte, bard, child, enchantress, fighter, forester, hunter, knight, lady, lord, mage, magician, man, mariner, minstrel, orphan, pirate, priest, priestess, reaver, rogue, sorcerer, thief, warlock, warrior, widow, witch, wizard, woman Body: arm, blood, body, bone, brow, eye, face, foot, hand, head, heart, leg, skin, voice Old Miners, Forester and All Some more specific themes may suit particular races or vocations in your campaign. Consider dwarves: their toughness and beards are already covered, but we can add a few terms to cover their mining and acquisitive sides. In this case, choose words from two adjacent lists of the three separated by a ‘+’. Change Carverune to get Runecarver and so on if you like. (Such tags could also be used as clan names.) Delvedeep, Orelord: carve, delve, dig, forge, hew, mine, quarry, sculpt + copper, deep, gem, gold, iron, ore, rock, rune, silver, stone + cave, hall, hand, heart, hoard, home, lord For foresters, wood elves, and so on, tags to do with woodland life are natural (so to speak). Other elves might be suited to things more artistic. Choose words from the lists separated by a ‘+’. Greenleaf: black, gold, golden, green, grey, red, silver + ash, bark, berry, birch, branch, elm, hazel, leaf, oak, root, rowan, tree, willow, wood Brightstar: bright, clear, dance, dream, fair, golden, grey, silver, sing, white + brow, cloud, dove, eye, mist, moon, sky, star, stream, sun, swan, water Homelier races like halflings might be known for their love of creature comforts; fairies, sprites, pixies, and so on by common plant names and natural terms. Drinkale, Merrycup: down, drink, good, quaff, swig + ale, beer, brew, mead, merry + barrel, cup, flask, keg, mug Sweetapple: eat, fine, fresh, good, munch, sweet + apple, berry, cake, loaf, nut, pie, stew Goldpipe: gold, long, merry, silver, small, sunny + mouth, pipe, laugh, spoon, foot, toe Glimmerdew: bright, fast, gleam, glimmer, glint, shimmer, shine, sparkle, spry, swift, twinkle + bell, cup, dew, drop, flash, leaf, mote, rill, seed, thorn, web, wing Hazelbud: apple, ash, birch, broom, elm, gorse, hazel, holly, oak, rowan, willow, yew + berry, bloom, blossom, bud, flower, leaf, seed, spray, sprig, twig Fern: acorn, bluebell, bramble, buttercup, clover, daisy, dandelion, fern, forget-me-not, mallow, mint, mustard, parsley, poppy, tansy, thistle, watercress (optionally, + blossom, down, leaf, petal, seed, sprout) Obviously there are other characteristic of races and vocations - favourite weapons for a start (Greataxe, Strongbow, Suresling, Swiftdart). You can easily create similar sets suitable for particular groups in your world. Swimming with the Vicious First a few possible epithets for sadistic evil overlords, to add to the Bad and Bestial lists above. Just choose a term to fit the character: Vlad the Impaler, Bralk the Scourge, Gringor the Fiend. Torturer: blinder, butcher, crippler, eviscerator, flayer, impaler, lacerator, lamer, maimer, mutilator, severer, shriveller, tormentor, torturer, witherer, wracker Bane: bane, blight, curse, evil-doer, fiend, hateful, ruiner, scourge These next lists are for short phrase-names of vile sort: Muckworm, Gibberdrool, and so on. They are suitable for evil underlings, low-grade imps, and other unpleasant types. Just combine a pair of words that total three or less syllables, in whatever order seems best (or indeed worst). Noise: burble, cackle, caw, choke, croak, drone, gibber, gnar, grate, gride, grunt, gurgle, hiss, howl, mewl, moan, pule, rasp, scrape, screech, shriek, snivel, snort, squall, squeal, wail, wheeze, whine, yawl, yawp, yelp, yowl Pest: beetle, bug, crow, cur, flea, gnat, grub, larva, lawyer, leech, lice, locust, louse, maggot, mite, pest, rat, slug, spider, tick, toad, vermin, wasp, weevil, worm, wretch Grime: bile, dirt, dregs, drool, dross, dung, filth, grime, juice, mire, muck, mud, ooze, phlegm, poison, pus, rust, scum, slime, slobber, sludge, smear, smudge, snot, spittle, stain, waste Nastiness: bite, blight, blister, bloat, canker, fetid, foul, gall, gross, hate, mange, mar, mildew, mould, plague, pustule, putrid, rancid, rank, rot, rotten, scab, scar, sick, smut, sour, spite, sting, vex, vile, wart Squishy Bits: belly, bladder, bowels, brains, eye, gristle, guts, lips, liver, lung, offal, spleen, tongue, tripes Phrases and Proverbs In general, use all such long names sparingly! The simple phrase-name epithets like Vulb of the Infamous Sigil or Baldric of the Cunning Plans can be created using the diverse lists above. More complex title-like epithets (the Unknown Warrior, She Who Laughs at Death, the Cat Who Walks Alone, the Sorcerer in Purple and Gold) are really enlargements of similar ideas. Simply express the concept in more words or more abstractly, using a few of the rhetorical and figurative devices lying about in the dustier corners of your brain. African-style phrase-name patterns are scarce in fantasy, but worth exploring. Rider Haggard’s Ayesha, She-who-must-be-obeyed, is typical of real names, many of which are similarly optimistic, as in the phrase-names Will-rule-the-world or Will-have-boundless.wealth. Phrase-names extend to local proverbs and sayings: it is nice to have money, the king warms himself at the fire, no hoe to dig a grave, our home is filled with honors, love brings happiness, there’s glory in wealth, take things easy, valour acts honourably, good deeds are remembered, a child is the most precious thing, the journey is good, what did you want? what have you killed? Religious folk may use more pious phrases like God is all things good, God owns the world, God has shown me the way (the Translation Names section includes theophorics). You can adapt such names, or the idea, to fit your own campaign. Never-laugh-at-live-dragons could tell you a tale or two, or perhaps that doughty duo Many-a-slip and To-be-or-not-to-be could sally forth to rescue Here’s-looking-at-you-kid... at least the idea could make an interesting village to visit! Consult books of proverbs and quotations to glean phrase-names to suit the culture and milieu. In a post-apocalypse setting, the Proverbs of the Ancients (and hence names) might be current advertising slogans .they are after all what people remember these days, rather than any poetry or prose of merit and depth. Titles Titles include designations of military and political rank, honours, and so on for nobility, religious orders, bureaucracies, and more. All advanced societies tend to stratify and build up such designations; there are an indefinite number, most suited to more specialised publications than this book. Titles here are limited to the nobility of a few countries and times. Monarch of All I Survey Princes and above are royalty; the rest are peers, knights being non-hereditary. Elaborations of rank - High King, Archduke, Count Palatine - can be added as required. Officials of the court will rank amongst the nobility, but precedence is far too complex to go into here. Various blends of style and address will apply formally, socially, and in correspondence. The title Emperor applies to kings ruling over multiple nations, in general, and in Europe derives from Charlemagne (and ultimately from the Romans). It was used occasionally by Spanish princes, for instance, when they gained extra territories. Queen Victoria had the extra title Empress of India, but she was Queen of Great Britain first and foremost. ‘Emperor’ was first used in France by Napoleon, and then (as with the first Roman emperors) to avoid being called ‘King’ in a nominal republic. On the continent, the term of address ‘Lord’was Signor, Seigneur, etc. Principe was the highest Italian title of nobility, and was accorded to royal family members; the higher terms listed were for foreigners. The title Cavaliere Ereditario (hereditary knight bachelor) was of similar status to Baronet, but somewhat older. The Spanish title Príncipe was only used for a foreign or reigning prince. Table 3-2: Feudal Titles #  Title  Honorific Style  Address  1  Emperor, Empress  Imperial Majesty  Imperial Majesty  2  King, Queen  Majesty  Majesty  3  Crown Prince, Princess  Royal Highness  Royal Highness  4  Prince, Princess  Highness  Highness  5  Duke, Duchess  Most Noble  Grace  6  Marquis, Marchioness  Most Honourable  Lord, Lady  7  Count, Countess  Right Honourable  Lord, Lady  8  Viscount, Viscountess  Right Honourable  Lord, Lady  9  Baron, Baroness  Right Honourable  Lord, Lady  10  Baronet  Sir, Lady  Sir, Lady  11  Knight  Sir, Lady  Sir, Lady  Table 3-3: Titles by Nationality  English  French  German  Spanish  Italian  Emperor, Empress  Empereur, Impératrice  Kaiser, Kaiserin  Emperador, Emperatriz  Imperatore, Imperatrice  King, Queen  Roi, Reine  König, Königin  Rey, Reina  Re, Regina  Prince, Princess Royal  Dauphin, Dauphine  Kron Prinze, Prinzessin  Infante, Infanta  Prince, Princess  Prince, Princesse  Prinze, Prinzessin  Príncipe, Princes  Principe, Principessa  Duke, Duchess  Duc, Duchesse  Herzog, Herzogin  Duque, Duqesa  Duca, Duchessa  Marquess, Marchioness  Marquis, Marquise  Markgraf, Markgrafin  Marqués, Marquesa  Marchese, Marchesa  Earl, Countess  Comte, Comtesse  Graf, Grafin  Conde, Condesa  Conte, Contessa  Viscount, Viscountess  Vicomte, Vicomtesse  Vizconde, Vizcondesa  Visconte, Viscontessa  Baron, Baroness  Baron, Baronne  Baron, Baronin  Barón, Baronesa  Barone, Baronessa  Baronet  Baronnet  Baronet  Cavaliere Ereditario  Knight  Chevalier  Ritter  Caballero  Cavaliere  Conquering Kings Their Titles take Monarchs may have a simple title like King Wryxin of Meskland, but some have extra dignities. To generate such, use the following lists (secondary titles can be of any rank). Rulers are often members or commanders of a high Order of Knighthood, so add that in if it fits. Change gender as needed for female rulers. Guardian of the Realm: champion, defender, great steward, guardian, keeper, maintainer, preserver, protector, sustainer, upholder, warder + of (the) + country, dominion, faith, land, law, nation, people, populace, race, realm, society, state Lord of the Isles: baron, duke, emperor, governor, head, lord, king, master, monarch, overlord, ruler, sovereign, suzerain, thane + of (the) + [specific place-names will depend on your world; for general ones, use the Land and Sea terms from the Epithets section] For example: His Majesty King Wryxin of Meskland, Defender of the Faith, Upholder of the Law, Protector of the Populace; Knight Commander of the Most Noble Order of the Gryphon; Ruler of the Seven Forests, Overlord of the Riven Reaches, Emperor of the Purple Shore and Provinces Over the Seas. Despite all that, the descriptions are titles of office or duty, covering real functions and territories. The fulsome flattery heaped upon eastern potentates by way of titles (Illustrious Magnificence, Sun of Our Existence, Manifest Paragon of All Virtues, Pearl of Pearls, Celestial Transcendency, Jewel in the Crown of the Gods) was generally distasteful to western rulers, who preferred respectful subjects to obsequious worms. Other Rulers show roughly equivalent ranks, although status was highly variable. A few ranks were administrative or military rather than Usually generic titles are enough. ‘Chief’ applies equally well to noble per se, but that was the case with feudal ranks, too, at the the head of any clan or tribe, for instance. Following is a brief list start - the Marquis was originally one responsible for guarding a of titles of (mostly male) nobility from a few cultures at particular march, or border territory, for instance. times. Numbers from the Feudal Titles Table are included to Anglo-Saxon: 2 Cyne,Cwen, 4 Atheling, 7 Ealdorman, 9 Thegn Norse: 2 Konge, Kvaen, 7 Jarl Russian: 1 Tsar, Tsarina, 3 Tsarevich, 9 Boyar, 10 Okolnich Indian: 2 Maharajah, Maharani, 4 Rajah, Rani, 9 Nawab Arabic: 1 Padishah, 2 Shah, 3,4 Emir, 7 Ziamet, 8 Timar, 9 Beg, 10 Malik, 11 Sheik Turkish: 1 Sultan, Sultana, 5 Bey/Dey, 6 Pasha Mongol: 1 Kha-Khan, 3 Tarkhan, 4-6 Khan, Tibetan: 2 Gyel, 4 Dasho, Ashi Chinese: 1 Hwang, 2 Wang, 5 Gung, 6 Hou, 7 Bi, 8 Dse, 9 Nan, 11 Yun, Ke-you by mandarins under the Emperor. ‘King’ was used for otherTo understand ranking, it is often necessary to understand the rulers, as in Huang Lung, the Dragon King. If you plan to dealdifferent stages and constitutions of the cultures to which they with such settings in detail, works on the culture and periodbelong. For instance, although a list of inheritable noble titles is should be consulted.given for the Chinese, they are mostly military honours, and their bearers did not rule: the empire was an imperial bureaucracy run Translation Names Translation names are those translated from languages where Some are more familiar in this form than in the original. Since the names are formed of vocabulary elements. They have they have their own flavour, systems for creating a few of them meaning, although they might not always make literal sense. are presented here. Amerindian A typical Amerindian name pattern is description + thing Table 3-4:Amerindian Names (Bloody Knife, Sitting Bull, Crooked Nose), although there are D20 Result Examples also single-element names (Thunder,Around), two-thing names 01 Description (Other) South, Stone (Eagle Buffalo), and phrase names. Animals and colours are the 02-12 Description + Thing Yellow Horse, Long Jaw, commonest name elements. To generate a translation name, roll 13-14 Description + Description Little Red Bird d20, consult the Amerindian Names Table, and choose one or +Thing North Little Hand more parts from the indicated list or lists, rolling a d10 if 15-16 Thing + Thing Hawk Owl, Sun Bear necessary to decide on the type of description or thing. For 17-18 Thing Wolf, Moccasin, Shadow instance, a d20 roll of 11, followed by d10 rolls of 9 and 4, means 19-20 Phrase Fixes with Foot, a description (any) + thing (animal): in this case, Careless Kills the Enemy Squirrel. Description (d10): (1-5) Colour, (6-8)Activity (living) or Other (item), (9-0)Any Thing (d10): (1-6)Animal, (7-0)Any Common: Description: black, grey, little, medicine, old, red, running, sitting, standing, walking, white, yellow. Thing: bear, bird, buffalo, cloud, deer, eagle, feather, fire, knife, shield, wing, wolf. Female Common: bird, butterfly, cow, dress, flower, pretty, shawl, shell, singing, sweet, water, weasel Description Activity: arriving, charging, conquering, crashing, crying, dancing, dragging, falling, flying, howling, jumping, kicking, killing, laughing, living, mourning, roaring, running, screeching, shouting, singing, sitting, sleeping, smoking, snapping, stabbing, standing, strutting, walking, wallowing, whirling, whistling Colour: black, blue, brown, grey, red, roan, speckled, spotted, striped, white, yellow Other: angry, bad, big, bitter, blind, bloody, brave, bright, broken, burning, careless, cold, constant, crazy (mad), crooked, cunning, curly, cut, dull (blunt), east, empty, fast, fat, fire, flint, foolish, foremost, four, fragrant, gentle, good, graceful, great, hairy, handsome, hard, heartless, heavy, high, hollow, horn, hot, hungry (starving), iron, lame, last, left, light, limber, little (small), lone (one), long, low, many (pile of, mountain of), medicine, naked, new, noisy, north, old, painted, pretty (beautiful), rotten, sand, scar, sharp, short, silent, slow, smoked, south, steel, stone, straight, strong, sturdy, successful, sweet, swift, tall, tangle, thin, three, torn, two (double), war, watchful, west, wide, wild, wise, wooden, wounded, young Thing Animal: antelope, badger, bat, bear, beaver, bird, blackbird, buffalo (bull, calf, cow), butterfly, caribou, coyote, crane, deer (buck), dog, dove, eagle, elk, fish, fox, frog, goose, grizzly, hawk, hog, horse, loon, magpie, mink, moose, muskrat, otter, owl, porcupine, rabbit, raven (crow), snake, spider, squirrel, swan, turkey, turtle, weasel, whale, wildcat, wolf Feature: arm, beard, belly, body, claw, eye, face, fingers, fist, foot, forehead, hair (locks), hand, head, heart, horn, hump, jaw, leg, mouth, paw, nose, shoulder, skin, tail, thigh, tooth, wing Sky: autumn (fall), cloud, dark, dawn, day, evening, fog, frost, hail, ice, moon, morning, night, rain, rainbow, shade, shadow, sky, snow, spring, star, summer, sun, sunshine, thunder, thunderstorm, whirlwind, wind, winter Plant: bark, branch, cedar, cherry, corn, grass, hickory, leaf, maple, oak, pine, pumpkin, sagebrush, seed, tobacco, tree, water lily Other: about, around, arrow, bearskin, belt, blanket, bow, chief, coal, creek, dancer, daughter, dish, dress, drum, earth, feather (plume), fire, flower, ghost, hat, hatchet, hill, hoe, hood, hunt, hunter, kettle, knife, lake, leggings, man, moccasin, mountain, necklace, ornament, path, plains, pouch, quiver, rapids, rattle, ridge, road, robe, rock, shawl, shell, shield, shirt, sign, song, spade, speaker, spear, spirit, spring, stone, swimmer, thinker, thought, tracker, tracks, trail, valley, voice, walker, warrior, water, waterfall, wave, whetstone, whoop, woman, wood Phrase: appears like a clear sky, bathes the knees, bear travelling in the night, bird that goes to war, blows with puffed cheeks, both sides of the river, breaks the bushes, butterfly resting amid flowers in breeze, can be heard from afar, carries a wolf, chased by bears, drinks juice of stone, even whose horses are feared, fights with feather, fire burning briskly, fixes with foot, fleecy cloud floating into place, flower blooming, flower which has just come up, follows behind, geese landing three times in water, goes up the river, grieves the enemy, has many enemies, horse is afraid, horse is crazy, horse thief, is not afraid, kills at night, kills the enemy, like receding water, looks and kills, makes rivers, man of good sense, moves in the dark, no horns on head, one who yawns, only sits there, particular/peculiar time of day, puts all outdoors, reaches out and kills, respects nothing, running after flowers, runs against something when crawling, shakes the spear, sings the war song, snow on the ground, stands about/alone/in timber/by the fire, stands on the cloud/ground/hill, stone eater, strikes two at once, stubs his foot, takes away, the eternal point, there he goes, throwing down, to whom luck is given, touching leaves, travels everywhere, tries the ground with his foot, walks before daylight, walks in middle, walks with the wind, well-planted corn, without weapon Amerindian Notes Medicine means magic, here, so a name containing it indicates some miraculous quality. Horses, iron, and steel were unknown in North America until the Spanish arrived, but circumstances may differ in your world. Alter the result if you like, remembering that these names derive from incidents, habitual garb, personal aspects, and so on. Use whatever order seems best in a combination (Sign Wood rather than Wood Sign, say). Use the plural or possessive if it sounds better (Legs, Grey Eyes, Mouse’s Road, Bear’s Paw). Leggings + rabbit or deer should probably get you Deerskin Leggings or Rabbitskin Leggings. You can also alter the parts of speech and rearrange words: Killing + Buck, Woman, Man, or Path could instead be Killbuck, Killwoman, Mankiller, or Pathkiller (the last presumably an ambusher). Names such as Wolf Hill could be expanded to Wolf on the Hill and added to the list of phrases - which can be expanded on as you see fit. The phrases can generally have ‘he who’, ‘she who has’, ‘man who’, and so on added to them (He who Breaks Heads with Fists). Note that ‘woman’ (or ‘daughter’) is often but not always added to a name to indicate a female (White Calf Woman), especially when the name is otherwise short (Ghost Woman, Fox Daughter). Short names for men can have ‘man’ added likewise if you wish (Stone Man, Thin Man), although this was uncommon. Often, though, a name like Tracker could just as well be translated as Man who Tracks. Mayan To generate a Mayan translation name, first determine the For example, some genuine Mayan names include Eighteen-number of elements in the name. Roll d20: one (1-3), two (4-14), Rabbit, Moon-Zero-Bird, Double-Smoke, Knot-Eye-Jaguar, three (15-19), four (20). Then choose and hyphenate the parts Smoking-Frog, Jewelled-Skull, Tree-Shark, Water, Great-Skull.from the lists. If a part is repeated, use ‘double’, so bird + bird Zero, Waterlily-Jaguar, Serpent-Star, Jaguar-Throne. would be Double-Bird. Change the part of speech if you like, but almost any combination is possible. Common: double, huge, jaguar, (number), scroll, shield, skull, sky, smoke, star Animal: alligator, animal, ant, bat, bird, boar, deer, dog, dragon, dwarf, frog, heron, iguana, jaguar, kite, macaw, monkey, ocelot, owl, puma, queztal (bird), rabbit, serpent, shark, snake, squirrel, tarantula, turtle, wasp, wild beast Item: axe, bones, cloud, clouds, comb, cord, couch, earth, ebony, edifice, eye, fan, fire, flint, forest, head, house, jade, jawbone, jewel, knot, leaf, lightning, lightning bolt, lightning strike, maize, mat, mead, moon, mound, night, noise, nose, paw, rain, rainbow, reed, scroll, shell, shield, skull, sky, song, star, stone, storm, sun, sun-face, tail, throne, thunder, torch, tree, water, waterfall, waterlily, wind Colour: black, blue-green, green, red, white, yellow Number: Roll d6: (1-5) roll d20, (6) zero. Other: abundance, blowgun-hunter, clear, conquest, curl, death, double, east, father, first, fragrant, great (large, huge), growth, hidden, holy, kindly, lighting, new, noble, north, precious (jewelled), prophecy, pure, resplendent, singing, sleep, spear-thrower, smoking, south, stormy, split, unique, upraised, west Oriental These translation names are mostly from Chinese, but can do for related cultures. Many of name elements (traditional virtues, flora, fauna, calendar symbols, and so on) had the same currency in China, Korea, and Japan. For instance, the zither (Chinese chin, Japanese koto, Korean kum) was a symbol of culture. The elements include not only the usual personal ones (auspicious, descriptive, or honorific), but also those suited for nicknames, literary names, and so on. Some of these may be fanciful, but who could resist a name like Indefatigable Optimist, Unimpeach.able Rectitude, or Superfluous Cricket? To generate a translation name, roll d30, consult the Oriental Names Table, and choose one or more parts from the indicated list or lists, exercising a little care. Obviously, ‘feminine’or ‘ladylike’are only used by females. A flower variety + blossom or flower (such as Lotus Flower) is also only for females, but a flower with anything else could be a male name. Of the adjectives, choose from Standard for a normal name, High for a polished or vainglorious one, Low for unfortunates, harlots, and malefactors. (Even at its height, the Chinese Empire had brutal bandits to offset its sophisticated literary culture.) On a result of 30, use phrases for the well-off, numbers for peasants (see notes hereafter). For example, a few rolls give us Little Dragon, Cultured Treasure, Golden Mouse, Profound Virtue, Elegant Orchid, Ineluctable Irony, Sorrow of Sunset, and Literate Hero. Most of these are in fact real names, but all are potentially so! Table 3-5: Oriental Names D30  Result  Examples  01-24  Description + Thing  Bright Pearl, Victorious Pheasant  25-26  Thing + Thing  Tea Leaf, Lotus Blossom, Cypress Hero  27  Thing  Clouds, Lantern, Bird  28  Description  Silver, Harmonious  29  Any three words  Red Wooden Rabbit, Gold Tea Cup  30  Number + Thing, or Phrase  Number Five Crab, Dragon of the World  Male Common: ambitious, big, chrysanthemum, hero, lofty, magnificent, military, peace, proud, scholar, strong, virtuous Female Common: beautiful, blue, cloud, feminine, flower, good, jade, lotus, moon, red, small, zither Description Standard: accomplished, aggressive, auspicious, autumnal, beautiful, black, blue, bright, clear, competent, cultured, elegant, eminent, enchanting, eternal, feminine, ferocious, filial, fragrant, genteel, golden, graceful, gracious, great, green, gregarious, handsome, harmonious, heroic, high, honest, honourable, intelligent, jade, ladylike, literate, little, lofty, lovely, lucky, lustrous, martial, moral, peaceful, perfect, placid, pleasant, pretty, profound, propitious, prosperous, proud, quiet, red, respectable, robust, scholarly, scrupulous, self-reliant, sensitive, shining, silver, soaring, sparkling, strong, subtle, successful, supreme, sweet, triumphant, trustworthy, upright, vast, victorious, virtuous, white, wise, wooden, yellow High: adamantine, audacious, august, beneficent, bountiful, celestial, dauntless, dazzling, discerning, efflorescent, enlightened, erudite, exalted, extraordinary, fascinating, fastidious, flawless, formidable, illimitable, illustrious, immitigable, immortal, incomparable, indefatigable, indispenable, indomitable, ineluctable, inextinguishable, inflexible, inscrutable, intrepid, invincible, irrefragable, irrefrangible, irrefutable, irreproachable, magnificent, majestic, marvellous, miraculous, mysterious, omnipotent, omniscient, perdurable, perspicacious, prodigious, radiant, recondite, redoubtable, refulgent, sagacious, sempiternal, splendiferous, unimpeach.able, valiant, wonderful Low: adventitious, bellicose, belligerent, chaotic, demonaic, diabolical, egregious, faded, foolhardy, fortuitous, fulsome, implacable, incorrigible, ineffable, inevitable, inexplicable, infelicitous, iniquitous, insalubrious, insufferable, invidious, lachrymose, lamentable, lubricious, lugubrious, luxuriant, maleficent, malevolent, mendacious, meretricious, mordacious, pitiable, querulous, regrettable, reprehensible, salacious, stridulent, supercilious, supererogatory, superfluous, sybaritic, unavoidable, unbecoming, unfortunate, vainglorious, vicissitudinary, vindictive, voluptuous Action: arrives, begins, celebrates, cultivates, defends, establishes, pacifies, protects, respects, rules, treasures, upholds, worships Thing Standard: accomplishment, affection, ancestors, bow, chastity, clarity, cloud, clouds, compassion, country, cypress, family, favour, femininity, flower, fortune, fragrance, gold, happiness, hero, heroism, intelligence, iris, jade, key, liaisons, life, loftiness, longevity, lotus, love, luck, master, metal, money, orchid, peace, pearl, piety, plum, plume, prosperity, repose, ring, rose, sea, serenity, silver, strength, tranquillity, treasure, vase, victory, virtue, wealth, wisdom, world, zither Animal: bat, bear, bee, bird, boar (pig), cat, cicada, cock (rooster, hen, chicken), crab, crane, cricket, deer, dog, dormouse, dragon, dragonfly, duck, eagle, egret, fish, fox, frog, goat, goose, heron, horse, ibis, leopard, lion, lizard, monkey, mouse, otter, ox (bull, buffalo), panda, panther, peacock, pheasant, phoenix (m. feng - f. hwang), quail, rabbit, rat, rhinoceros, roc, salamander, seahorse, sheep (ram), snake, sparrow, stork, swallow, swan, tiger, tortoise, turtle, unicorn (ki-lin), wild goose Item: axe, basket, book, bow, canopy, castanets, chime, cloud, clouds, coin, coral, country, crutch, cup, dawn, drum, dusk, earth, family, fire, flame, flute, gift, glow, gold, gourd, grain, heaven, horn, jewel, knot, lake, lantern, light, metal, money, moon, mountain, pearl, pillow, plume, ring, sceptre, scroll, shell, silver, stone, sun, sword, thunder, treasure, umbrella, vase, water, wheel, whisk, wind, world, zither Qualities: accomplishment, affection, bravery, calm, charity, chastity, clarity, compassion, courage, favour, femininity, fortitude, fortune, fragrance, grief, happiness, heroism, honour, hope, intelligence, irony, joy, life, loftiness, longevity, love, luck, luxury, masculinity, mastery, morality, optimism, passion, pathos, pessimism, piety, pride, prosperity, prudence, rectitude, repose, sense, serenity, sorrow, strength, temerity, temperance, tranquillity, victory, virtue, wealth, wisdom, wonder Flowers: blossom, cherry, chrysanthemum, flower, gardenia, iris, lotus, magnolia, mallow, orchid, peach, pear, peony, plum, pomegran.ate, poppy Plants: bamboo, branch, pine, beech, cedar, cherry, cypress, fir, leaf, maple, oak, pine, spruce, tea Oriental Notes Most names are two words, such as Fragrant Cloud, Handsome Compassion, Wise Phoenix, or Filial Dragon. There were some one-word names. Also, Chinese syllables are not always equivalent to English words, and may result in fewer or more words in translation. For example, ching-pi (two syllables) is literally ‘green skin’, but means ‘rogue’. Thus, as well as two-word names, you bOOK OF NAMES 143 can end up with one-word names, like Swallow or Silver, or three-word names, like Crimson Pearl Flower. In Chinese, meaning and part of speech depend on symbol position. So the same symbols that read ‘golden splendour’ can be swapped around to read ‘splendid gold’. Likewise, you should transform words as you like, and add any terms that seem to fit. For instance you could change mastery to master, bellicose to bellicosity, diabolical to devil, and so on. Use the plural or possessive if it sounds better (Dragon’s Repose, Devil’s Hand). Nicknames were descriptive, so Ox would be strong, Foolhardy Temerity would be reckless, and so on. Peasant names might simply be birth order (Number Two Girl), with this number transferring to nicknames (Number Two Swan). Roll d10 for birth order. Phrases are traditional meanings assigned to symbol combinations: Wisdom + Ancestors would be taken as Wisdom of the Ancestors, Feminine + Jade = Femininity of Jade, Gift + Heaven = Gift from Heaven, and so on. They also include Action + Thing (usually a Quality), in names such as Respects Virtue, Favour Arrives, or Protects Life. All-purpose Theophorics These phrases either prefix or come after a god’s name or title, to give a theophoric name typical of many polytheistic cultures. Combine with a fitting divinity from your campaign to create names such as Given by Isis, Isis is Queen, Rejoice in the Thunderer, Zeus is King, and so on. (Watch the sex of deity and name-bearer.) Many also make suitable sayings for the faithful. Prefix: a god indeed is, beloved of, bestowed by, blessed by, blessing from, breeze of, bright is the spirit of, beloved of, brother/ sister of, child of, creator is, daughter/son of, delights in, dweller in, eternal is the splendour of, eternal life in, exalted is, faithful to, father/mother is, favour of, fortune is, from the hand of, fruit of, gift from, gift of, given by, golden is the beauty of, grace of, guided by, handmaid of, helped by, honouring, husband/wife of, judge is, known by, light of, loving, maid of, man/woman of, mighty is, my lord/lady is, pleasure of, praise, protected by, provided by, rejoice in, rescued by, right hand of, sanctuary is, servant of, serving under, slave of, the one of, trust in, trusts in, warrior of, witness to Suffix: answers prayers, blesses, establishes, gives, gives life, gives this, has brought, has created, has decreed, has given life, has heard, has judged, has looked graciously, has nourished, has brought prosperity, has provided, has reigned, has rewarded, helps, is a lion/lioness, is ancestor, is beloved, is benevolent, is brilliant, is eternal, is exalted, is god, is good, is great, is holy, is honoured, is just, is king/queen, is lord/lady, is master/mistress, is mighty, is moon, is my lord/lady, is my rock, is my support, is praised, is praiseworthy, is pre-eminent, is precious, is prince/princess, is righteous, is strong, is sun, is the best, keeps, -like, -loving, makes things possible, pleases, preserves, prevails, remembers, rescues, shines, shows favour, shows mercy, takes vengeance, vindicates, watches Groups As well as individual names, you may need names for armies, mercenary or adventuring companies, secret societies, guilds, and orders of knighthood. A few suggestions are proffered. You can extend the lists with terms from the Inns and Taverns section and Epithets section. Mystic Orders Magical and mystical orders likely abound in the world. Practitioners of the Art tend to be magniloquent, and want names beyond a Mages’Guild or Wizards’ Supply Consortium. (Churches will cater for their own.) Although descriptive names are usually best kept simple and vivid, the fanciful and vague are called for here: after all, these are mysteries beyond the common ken. Other organisations keen to bask in reflected glory, hint at profundity, or disguise malign intent are liable to imitate such names. Some may be social clubs, some secret societies comprised of quasi-religious questers after knowledge, harmless or harmful nutters, vile sorcerers, or depraved cultists. Only initiates would know that the Seekers Beyond the Veil, say, is a euphemistic front for local necromancers, who need to meet without the social difficulties posed by angry torch-wielding mobs. To generate a quick mystic order name, roll d10, consult the Mystic Order Names Table, and choose one or more parts from the indicated lists. Alter as needed. Table 3-6: Mystic Order Names D10 1 2-8 9 0  Result Group + of the + Entity Group + of the + Description + Entity Descr. + Group + of the + Descr. + Entity Description + Group  ExamplesSisters of the MoonOrder of the Rosy DawnGnostic Circle of the Umber CloudAzure Adepts  Group  Clique: alliance, association, band, brotherhood, cabal, circle, conclave, confraternity, convocation, coterie, fellowship, fraternity, guild, league, order, siblingship, sisterhood, society, sorority People: adepts, apostles, aspirants, brothers, children, colleagues, devotees, disciples, fellows, followers, gentlemen, illuminants, initiates, keepers, ladies, masters, probers, revealers, seekers, servants, siblings, sisters, votaries Description Quality: ancient, arcane, astral, blinding, bright, brilliant, burning, bygone, cardinal, celestial, cloudy, concealed, cosmic, dark, deep, dexter, difficult, dusky, effulgent, elder, elemental, esoteric, eternal, ethereal, existential, forgotten, gloomy, glorious, glowing, gnostic, hidden, ineffable, inner, lost, luminous, lunar, magical, maieutical, mysterious, mystic, occult, penumbral, profound, pure, quintessen.tial, radiant, recondite, resplendent, revealed, sacred, secret, shadowed, shining, sidereal, singing, sinister, solemn, spiral, spiritual, starry, solar, sublime, supernal, timeless, transcendent, true, veiled, zetetic Colour: amber, amethyst, aquamarine, azure, beryl, black, blue, brazen, bronze, brown, carmine, cerulean, copper, crimson, crystal, ebony, emerald, golden, green, grey, incarnadine, indigo, ivory, jade, jet, malachite, orange, pearly, purple, rainbow, red, rosy, ruby, russet, sable, sapphire, scarlet, silver, topaz, turquoise, umber, vermilion, violaceous, violet, viridian, white, yellow Entity: arcana, beyond, chalice, chamber, cloud, cowl, crown, crystal, darkness, dawn, day, doctrine, dominion, energy, enlightenment, eye, faith, fane, fire, flame, fountain, gate, glyph, grail, hand, harmony, heart, helix, influence, insight, key, knowledge, learning, light, lore, mantle, mastery, mind, moon, mystery, night, orb, path, pentacle, pillar, pool, portal, power, pyramid, question, radiance, rainbow, revelation, robe, rod, sapience, sceptre, scroll, secret, shadow, shrine, sigil, sign, sky, space, sphere, spring, staff, star, stone, sun, symbol, teaching, temple, throne, time, truth, twilight, veil, verity, void, wand, way, wisdom, word, world Notes A few rolls give Followers of the Spiral Path, Votaries of the Singing Flame, Order of the Emerald Pillar,Ancient Circle of the Crimson Cowl. Not everything will fit together neatly, so you might want to vamp the results a little or add or change terms. For instance: Confraternity of Ethereal Sapience, Seekers Beyond the Veil, Pearly Radiance Society, Journeyers to Wisdom, Mystic Jade Sisterhood, Violet Spiral, Shadowed Elder Masters of the One True Timeless Way, and so on. Military Units book to name a unit’s commander. For science fiction campaigns, The names of groups within the armed forces may depend on include futuristic terms and Greek letters in the possible choices. function (cavalry, chariots, and so forth), setting, and size, but a For guardians of a place (Watchers of the Crags), use the Land few terms are pooled here for general use. Colours and emblems and Sea terms from the Epithets section. Alter as needed. should be simple and heroic. Order of Knighthood would use only noble beasts and group names, but mercenary bands might To generate a Chivalric Order, roll d10 on the Military Unit (and bandits surely would) be happy as wolves, reavers, and so Names Table, but use ‘Knights of the’ or ‘Order of the’ for the on. These names might also do for martial adventuring guilds, group - for special orders, use ‘Most Noble Order’, ‘Knights with the addition of a few mystic order group terms. Protector’ (Warders list), and so on. Instead of commander, use the name of a legendary saint, hero, or ruler (Order of St Gemiric). To generate a name for a standard military unit, roll d10, consult Add descriptions from the Knightly Orders list or elsewhere to the Military Unit Names Table, and choose one or more parts get Knights of the Rose, Order of the White Hart, and so on. See from the indicated lists. Use the lists of names elsewhere in this the Inns and Taverns section for heraldic items. Table 3-7: Military Unit Names D10 Result Examples 1 Commander’s + Group Morzak’s Rats, Vurshan’s Veterans 2-7 Description + Group Red Daggers, Rune Marauders 8-9 Description + Description + Group Blue Death Legion, Tau Xi Meteors 0 Group + of (the) + Place/Other Warders of the Deep, Lions of Flame Group Team: armada, army, battalion, brigade, cohort, commandos, company, contingent, division, fleet, force, garrison, guard, legion, militia, patrol, phalanx, platoon, regiment, section, sentinel, sentry, squad, squadron, troop, vanguard Soldiers: avengers, champions, elite, fighters, janissaries, marines, paladins, riders, skirmishers, soldiers, troopers, veterans, victors, warriors Warders: crusaders, defenders, guardians, guards, keepers, knights, lords, preservers, protectors, rangers, sentinels, sentries, wardens, warders, watchers Mercenaries: bandits, destroyers, devourers, marauders, pirates, raptors, reavers Gear: arrows, axes, blades, bows, bucklers, claws, daggers, darts, fangs, fists, flails, gauntlets, halberds, hammers, helms, knives, lances, maces, pikes, scythes, shields, spears, swords, talons, teeth Creatures: angels, basilisks, cobras, demons, devils, eagles, falcons, griffins, hawks, hounds, jaguars, lions, panthers, rats, scorpions, sharks, tigers, vipers, wolves Description Colour: black, white, red; gold, silver, iron; blue, green, grey Other: battle, blood, bolt, bone, chaos, dark, death, dire, doom, fire, flame, free, high, law, light, lightning, moon, night, rune, sea, skull, star, storm, sun, thunder, thunderbolt, torch, war, wave, wind, wing, wrath Special Knightly Orders: lily, rose, oak, rowan; eagle, falcon, hawk, swan; dragon, griffin, hart, leopard, lion, panther; hand, harp, shell, sun, talisman Greek Letters: alpha, beta, gamma, delta, epsilon, zeta, eta, theta, iota, kappa, lambda, mu, nu, xi, omicron, pi, rho, sigma, tau, upsilon, phi, khi, psi, omega Futuristic: astral, asteroid, biotech, celestial, comet, cosmic, cyber, dimensional, disruptor, eliminator, galaxy, hyperspace, infinite, infrared, laser, matrix, meteor, nanotech, nullifier, orbital, phase, photon, planet, plasma, pulsar, quantum, quasar, rocket, sonic, space, space-time, starfarers, stellar, temporal, terminator, time, ultimate, ultra, ultraviolet, void, warp, xenomorph Thieves and Assassins Thieves and assassins are less likely to want attention or names for sophisticated Guilds of Assassins in places where memorable names than most professional groups - a guild might they are a recognised means of seeking revenge, choose suitable just be “da famly” to member thugs. In societies where criminal items from the following lists: activities are condoned, there might be some euphemistic appellation for such gangs. For instance, to create a few possible Restorers of Balance: arrangers, bestowers, disbursers, disposers, harmonisers, reconcilers, regulators, reinstaters, restorers + of + balance, congruity, correlation, correspondence, equilibrium, equipoise, equity, equivalence, parity, symmetry Apt Redress Society: acute, apposite, apt, decisive, dependable, extreme, faithful, final, fitting, impartial, reliable, supreme, ultimate, utmost + action, justice, reckoning, recompense, redress, reparation, reprisal, requital, retribution, satisfaction, vindication + alliance, association, company, corporation, organisation, society, syndicate Similarly, thieves could be uplifters, redistributors, leviers, liberators, and so on (Knights of the Knife was one jocular name). For the rest of the ‘gentlemen of the shade’, a hint of the hidden, venomous, or menacing should serve. Choose a description and a term from another list, changing words around as appropriate: the Shadow Hand, the Ready Blades, Night Stalkers, and so on. A single term might be enough with a group name (see the mystic orders), giving Brothers of the Mask, the Slayers’ Band, and the like. Add any other terms that seem to fit. Bandits might use military unit names (Berespan’s Bravos, Long Knives). See The Canting Crew (vol. I in this series) for full details of outlawry, and more terms for criminal and urban groups. Description: black, cloud, dark, dim, dusk, fog, gloom, grey, night, shade, shadow, smoke; quiet, subtle, whisper; bloody, hidden, red, ready, sharp, sudden Weapon: blade, bolt, claw, dagger, dirk, fang, hand, knife Item: balance, hourglass, scales; cloak, cowl, hand, hood, mantle, mask Creature: snake, scorpion, spider; bat, cat, daw, dog, owl, pye, rat, weasel Action: bring, find, hunt, kill, search, seek, shadow, slay, stalk Adventurers and Guilds Adventuring companies may have to be registered in your milieu, or perhaps your players like the idea of their characters having a catchy group name and matching vambraces. Certainly, a party of adventurers should have a name if they wish to build a group reputation in the game world. Adventuring groups tend to resemble specialist tactical squads or small-group skirmishers, so many military unit names should satisfy. If they don’t, names from the other lists here might fit, or even some epithets and translation names (Crackbone Company, the Smoke-Skull-Frogs). For other adventuring companies, and guilds as well, we have recourse to taverns (as most likely do the groups themselves, tavern knights all). The heraldic aspects of inn signs reflect the ways people identified themselves, so those symbols fit such groups snugly. To assign the type of name for a guild or company randomly, roll d10, and use the indicated result: (1) Mystic, (2) Thieves, (3-5) Military, (6-0) Tavern. To use tavern symbols as a basis for a guild or group name, roll d20, and consult the Base Tavern Knights Table. Choose the creature, item, and description from the lists in the Inns and Taverns section, augmented by the terms in the ‘Diverse, Mostly Heroic’ part of the Epithets section. Alter as inspired. The result is the base name of the group. Table 3-8: Base Tavern Knights D20  Result  Examples  01-06  Creature  Raven, Fox  07-10  Item  Acorn, Oak Leaf, Oak  11-20  Description  Bronze Feather,  + roll d10 on  Dreaming Spire  this table  To the base name, add, if needed, a term meaning ‘group’ .choose from the mystic order or military group names; for a professional guild, you can also use the name of the vocation it represents. Hence: Alliance of the Bear, Company of the Hourglass, Green Sky Wizards, Nature’s Talons, the Grey Wolves, the Fatecasters, the Cauldron Witches, Warriors of the Dragon Gold, Winged Lightnings, Order of the Black Rose, Royal Elm Foresters, the Seven in Scarlet. Book four places Place Names A place name describes a locality, from continent, coast, and as well. Understanding how real names are constructed lets you country, down to mountains, hills, lakes, streams, meadows, create names that sound solid, and that will last and enrich the woods, cities, towns, and villages. Often habitations are named campaign, whether you're filling in a few villages in a prepared after nearby geographic features, so those types of names milieu or creating an entire world. overlap. People may have surnames deriving from their places of origin, just as places can be named after people, so names of Place names don't spring fully formed from the brow of Jove. places and people can transfer back and forth as well. This Most in fact are plain descriptions of a landscape or settlement, section looks at how to create suitable place names for your constructed in the same specific + generic pattern: Twin Rivers, campaign, whether to fill in a map or just to give a character a Oxford, Newtown. Oxford was a ford where oxen crossed, for place in the world. instance. The pattern of a feature plus a descriptive term or another distinguishing feature applies to place names in most It’s Elementary cultures. Some stock modern place-name elements and synonyms are listed below.Adventurers may come and go, but places abide, so place names should be enduring. In a fantasy world, they should be inspiring Description General: old (elder, ancient), new (fresh, young), big (great, huge, large, vast), little (small), hot (burning, fiery), cold (bitter, bleak, chill, icy), wet (damp, dank, sodden), dry (arid, parched); fair (good, fine, rich), foul (bad, rank, poor); fire, wind Directions: high (up, steep), low (deep, sunken), near, far, over, under; north, south, east, west Colours: black, blue, green, grey, red, white, yellow; brown, orange, purple; dark, bright; golden, silver, iron Other: local flora and fauna, names of settlers and explorers, etc. Feature Relief: mountain (height, mount, peak), hill (hillock, knoll, mound), cliff (bluff, crag, scarp), cave (cavern, grotto), pass (gap, col), plateau, ridge, slope (rise), bank (edge, rim), valley (dale, glen, vale; gorge, ravine, canyon), hollow (basin, bowl, pit), plain (flat), swamp (bog, fen, marsh, mire, morass), desert (waste, wilds, barrens), volcano, stone (rock) Vegetation: forest (wood, scrub, bush), grove, tree, clearing (glade), meadow Habitation: field, farm (grange, holding, homestead), village (hamlet), town, city, fort (castle, citadel), wall, border (frontier, limit), province (district, region, territory), tomb (crypt, grave, vault), church (shrine, temple), well, bridge, road (street, avenue, terrace), path (track, trail, walk), alley, fork, crossroads, corner Water: water, sea (ocean), lake, pond (pool), river, stream (brook), ford, waterfall (fall), spring Land: land, island (isle), cape (head, point), shore (beach, coast), harbour (port), bay (cove, gulf, sound), inlet (creek), mouth To create a generic modern place name, link a description and people note? At a ford or beach, perhaps mud, sand, pebbles, feature, or two features: Red Sea, Yellow River, Dobb’s Lake, boulders, a rock shelf; and there you have Pebbleford, Boulder Wood Hill, Bridgetown, Jonestown, and so on. A mountain might Beach, and the rest. Perhaps plants or animals: Dolphin Spit, be North Mountain, a town Northtown - or it could take its name Thar Hill, Berry Copse. Dandelion Hill would suit a homely place, from its locale and be called Northmount. Add a few other terms Shatterpeak somewhere dramatic. More allusive names might fit: and metaphors and alter the results to fit. A ‘black forest' could Thunder Ravine, home to a noisy waterfall; Lion Rock for a become Ravenwood, using the bird for its colour, and the bird's feliform outcrop; Cats’ Feast for a locale overrun with mice; associations may hint at the nature of the wood. A typical sea Death by Midges for a bog. cliff name like Lover’s Leap could be changed to Smuggler’s Leap, and perhaps suggest a story about that jagged bluff above You can adjust the available elements to suit place and time, for the secluded cove. instance by adding in local terms. America would have gulch (19th century) and canyon (Spanish) for valleys; prairie (French) When creating and naming places in an imaginary world, you and savannah (Amerindian) for grassy plains; and bayou (via can let the name dictate the place or vice versa. If the latter, think French, from Choctaw ‘bayuk’) for a sluggish swampy tributary. about the place envisioned. What would be there? What would Russia would have tundra, taiga, and steppe (permafrost plain, subarctic coniferous forest, and grassland). In a future setting, terms from any nation could be used, and people's names, of any type, would also be more frequent. Plain modern names are fine, but in quantity can seem a little bland, lacking any sheen of use and time. The distinctive character of older place names, with patina aplenty, makes them seem unrelated to modern ones. In fact they are formed the same way, but have been blurred by vocabulary changes and the passing years. This is where seeing that descriptive pattern becomes a useful insight, since we can use it to construct place names that sound genuinely old, that give imaginary castles and villages a sense of being wrought of stone and rooted in the earth rather than being flimsy façades slapped together out of lath and plaster. British Place Names The place names of Britain are directly useful to many fantasy campaigns, since many names are medieval or older, and suit the expected background. They have also been copied about the world in younger countries. Because of Britain’s layered history, its names are rich and varied, ranging from poetic (Windermere) to comical (Nether Wallop). The name elements were plain words once, and many still are, but a mix of languages and changes in sense over time have disguised many more. The names still mean something ordinary like Joe's Hut or Bill’s Farm or Barley Town under the dust of centuries. The various waves of immigrants brought their own names for things with them, and used or adapted existing ones. When the Normans took stock of their conquest, they found the land fully named. They added to the language with words like castle, farm, forest, lake, mountain, river, tower, chase, and village, but these terms were too late to make many place names. Often such words were added redundantly to existing names, for instance, Sherwood (bright wood) had 'forest' attached. The Normans were not alone in this. An amusing example is England's Torpenhow Hill, successively built up by different groups: 'tor', ‘pen’, and ‘how’ all mean ‘hill’ too! Many names of English rivers (Arrow,Avon,Axe, Don, Dore, Dover, Esk, Exe, Lent, Ouse) also originally just meant river or water in the local speech. The main language source for place names varies with the location. Wales is mostly Briton (Old Welsh); England mostly English in the southeast, mixed with Briton around the rest and Norse in the north. Ireland and the highlands of Scotland are mostly Gaelic; the lowlands of Scotland are a mix of Gaelic, Briton, Norse, and English. A few Latin and French terms occur. Many place names come from two or more sources. Stratford-on-Avon, for instance, comes from Latin (strata, which became street), English (ford), and Briton (avon). It was a place where a Roman road crossed a river, about which a settlement grew. Place names can be made of one, two, or three elements, usually two. The general term usually comes last in English, first in Gaelic, but may vary, for instance, in some older Gaelic names like Armagh (ard + magh, high plain), or when sources were mixed. English Settlements When the early English arrived, they drove out the Britons, but ignored their settled Roman-style farms, preferring to set up their own camps by felling trees and erecting a stockade to keep out wild animals and foes. This enclosure was a tun, which became 'ton', the most frequent settlement ending. It came to mean farm, estate, then village, and in time became the word ‘town’. As more were set up, they were distinguished by adding descriptive elements: Upton (higher), Netherton (lower), Marston (by a marsh), Acton (amid oaks), Stanton (by a stone). As settlements multiplied, other terms were used to describe them - home (ham), place (stede), farm (worth, wic), and many more. The terms could be combined: ham + stede gave the place Hampstead and the word homestead. All villages needed a water source, and either had woods nearby and pastures and arable land for stock and crops, or were sited at a river crossing or along a trade route. They often took name elements from the landscape: meadows, hills, valleys, woods, groves, and bodies of water. A common ending is ‘ley’(a lea), originally a clearing or open glade, since such a site was good for a settlement. (England had more trees early on.) A village might grow up around or be known by a bridge, ford, farm, church, or fortress, a building (a mill, say, as in Milton), or a place to meet or trade. It could be named after people (denoting title, not tribute, save for a few saints). The familiar ‘ington’ or 'ingham’suffixes usually follow a brief form of an Anglo-Saxon leader's name, indicating where his band settled. Reada’s band would be the Readingas; their village could be Readingham or Reddington (or even Reading). Grammar played a small part in place names. Prepositions (at, atte, or atten; by, on) could become part of a name (Attwell, Bywater, Overbury, Underwood). Our possessive apostrophe-s came from -es in Old English, but they also had a different possessive, -an, for nouns ending in ‘a’ or ‘e’. Daga's home would Dagan ham, which became Dagenham, and similar names ended up with ‘en’ in the middle too. Village names changed over time as the language changed, often getting shorter (even as some hamlets grew to towns, their woods cleared, their mires drained). Beorhthelm's tun became Brighthelmstone then contracted to Brighton. Such simplifica.tions make it hard to tell, for instance, if Hargreave were originally ‘hoar grove’ or ‘hare grove’. Words changed, veiling original meanings: Shipton or Skipton meant Sheeptown, and so on. Elements also merged with similar ones. The ending -ville, while more popular in America even than its native France, never caught on in Britain even when the Normans used it, because the natives changed it to the familiar ‘field’. Norman additions quite often ended up as separate words attached to an existing name. The Normans also introduced a few more fanciful and metaphoric descriptions, such as Belvoir (beautiful view, and pronounced Be-vor) or Richmond (royal mount), but mostly kept things plain. Some places gained extra terms in the manner of surnames, especially for the many new, west, and south towns street in medieval times was usually the High Street, or Highgate. (Newton, Weston, Sutton) created as the Anglo-Saxons spread (This was to become Main Street in America, keeping the sense across the country, or for several villages that took their name of high as important.) Other streets were named by position, from the same river - hence names like Upper Weston or Newton associated trade or goods, and where they went: North Walk, Abbot. This could grow to whole phrases, like Stratford-on-Thieves Alley or Hog Lane, Market Street. Names might relate to Avon (as opposed to Stratford on another river), Shipton-under-nearby features, past incidents, prominent residents, or the road Wychwood, or Stow-on-the-Wold. description or condition (Broadway or Highway), but not always obviously.A Summer Lane might well have been usable only in The names of shires and counties might describe the people who summer, for instance, otherwise being impassably muddy. Similar dwelled there, or take their name from features, rivers, main logic applied to other place names like Winterbourne, where the towns, and so on. Suffolk and Sussex mean ‘south folk' and brook would only flow in winter. 'south Saxons’; Merionethshire comes from the name Marion; Rutland comes from ‘Rota's land’; Hertfordshire is from a ford Creating Medieval Names frequented by harts. Wychwood is from the people called the You can generate place names suitable for medieval and later Wycche by Anglo-Saxon settlers. Britain by using old place-name elements. Those here are the most common, in their usual modern spellings. Many should beThoroughfares recognisable; some weirder ones are archaic or dialect terms. In the Dark and Middle Ages, a road meant an unpaved way Hyphens show if they were mainly beginnings or endings; many (anything you could ride along) and a street meant a paved way, could stand alone as well. Some rarer words for features appear originally one made by the Romans. A street was called a gate in in brackets. Synonyms are provided for naming country lanes the north, although gate kept its usual meaning as well. Way was and town alleys. used generally to mean either, often in compounds such as Greenway, Ridgeway (along a ridge) or Holloway (between steep Non-English elements are preceded by an initial indicating their banks). Villages might be named after these primary routes, but origin in case you want to vary their proportion by region (see rarely the rest. Local thoroughfares were usually the less above; Briton, Norse, Gaelic, French), but none was exclusively important lanes, perhaps rows if cottages bordered them, droves local. With the lists provided, you should easily be able to get or drifts if cattle were driven along them. Many other terms several dozen forms of the same basic name! For a natural arose, often for narrow winding ways and alleys once cities feature, choose a word for that feature, and add a descriptive started to grow. term or another feature to specify it. For habitations, you may want to roll on the Habitation Names table below. Thoroughfares in or near settlements were all named, and with nothing so dead and soulless as numbers. The most important Table 4-1: Habitation Names D30  Result  Examples  01-03  Person + Feature  Queenhill, Tatsfield, Walsenden  04-10  Person + Habitation  Kingston, Kings Lynn, Rudham, Uffington  11-19  Description + Habitation  Thorndyke, Ashton, Woodbury, Haliwell  20-28  Description + Feature  Broadwood, Sutcliffe, Lindhurst  29  One or three terms  Stoke, Thorpe; Brookhampton, Stantonwick  30  Phrase  Oakley-by-the-Hill, Stoke-upon-Trent  Common: Description: ash, black, brom, brun, cam, dunn, fair, green, high, long, nether, north, oak, sher, stan, stock, thorn, under, west, win. Feature: beck, bridge, brook, burn, combe, dale, dean, dell, dingle, down, field, ford, grove, heath, hill, holme, how, hurst, ley, mead, pool, shaw, stoke, stone, wood. Town: bury, by, cester, ham, ingham, ington, stead, thorpe, ton, well, wick, worth. Description General: Old. old, eld; auld, ault. N. gamel. New. new, young, yonge. Big. big, great, gret; long; broad, brad; mutch. N. mickle; lang. B. -vor. G. -more. Little. little; small, smale; short. B. bach, fach, -fechan, -vean. G. -beg. F. petty, petti-. Cold. cald, cold. Wet. Dry. dry; droc. Fair. fair. G. -bain. F. beale, bel. Foul. foul, ful; drit. Crooked. crom, crook, cruik; wo. B. cam-. G. cam-. Holy. hali, halli. Deep. deep; hol, hollow. Rough. rough, row. Summer. Winter. Directions: High. high, steep, up; upper. G. ard-, aird-. Low. low, deep; lower, nether. Middle. Near. by, near, nigh; at, atte, atten. B. ar. Far. far; long. Over. over; atop, on, upon. Under. under, nether. N. north, norris, nor. S. south, sut. E. east, est. W. west, wes. (Note also: B. y ' the, yr ' of the. G. an ' of the.) Colours: Black. black, blake. B. dove, dou-, -dew. G. dub-, dou-. Blue. blue. B. glas. G. glas. Green. green. B. glas. G. glas. Grey. grey, hoare. Red. red, rad, rudd, read, reed. B. gough. G. -roy, -roe; -flynn. White. white, whit; fair. B. win-, wen-, wyn- (gwyn). G. -finn. Yellow, golden. gold, gould, gyld. B. our, aur. F. blunt; or. Brown. brown, brun. Dark. dunn. Bright. bright; sher-, shir-. B. glou. Other: local flora and fauna, names of settlers, and so on. For instance: Flora: oak, ash, thorn (hawthorne); alder, birch, broom, elm, fern, flax, grass, hazel, heather, holly, ivy, reed, rowan, willow, yew; apple, pear, maple, plum, lime. Oak. ac-, aik-, oak-, oake-, oke-, -ock. B. derwent, darwen, dart. G. derry, -dare. Willow. willow; withy; sallow, sel-, sil. Lime. lind. Tree. tree, try. B. pren. Tree trunk. stock; stubb. Broom. brom, bram. Fern. fern, farn, far. N. bracken. Flax. fax, flax; lin. Heather. head-, hat-, had-. N. ling. Barley. bar-, ber-. Fauna: shep, ship (sheep); bull, ox, cow, calver (calf); hors, stud (horse); swin, grise (swine); bar, bor (boar); hart, buck (deer); wool (wolf); har (hare); bird; craw (crow); cran (crane); finch; tad (toad); worm (wyrm: anything from a snake to a dragon). Feature Relief: Mountain. As for hill + peak, pike. N. fell. B. mine-, mynd. G. mon-; ben, ban-. F. mont, mond, mountain. Summit. top, knepp. B. brig. G. -bar. Hill. hill, tor, height, knoll; hough, how, howe, hoo, hu-, -ow, -oe; -low, -law; down-, -down, -don, dun-; -berrow, -borough, -bury; hurst. B. pen-; bre-, bryn, -vern; crick-, creech, crewk-, cruc, gruc; mal-, mel. N. -fell; how, howe; -set, -side. G. knock-; mel-; tom-; slieve. F. mound. Stone, rock. stan-, stain-, -stone, -ston. B. creake, creigh-, graig; -maine; men, menhyr (llech). G. all-, ail-; carn-, carrick; clack-; cairn-; carreg. Cliff. cliff, cliffe, cleeve; scar, scaur; edge. B. crag. Cave. hole, pit; den. F. cave, cavern. Ridge. ridge, rigg, rudge. G. drum-. Slope. slade; lith, lyth; edge, side. N. -set, -side; breck; -ar, -er; -argh, -ergh. B. ru-, -rew. G. brae-, bray, bre-. Valley. dean, deane, den; botham, bottom; clough; slade, sled. N. dal-, -dale; -gill. B. coomb, comb, combe, coombe, comp-; glyn.(nant; ystrad). G. glen; strath. F. valley, vale. Hollow. -dean, -deane; -dell, dingle; hollow, hole (bowl). N. hol. F. basin. Plain. lynch; smeath, smather. N. flat. G. magher-, -magh, moy-. F. plain. Swamp. bog, fen, marsh, mire, slough; mud, mudge; carr, kerr. N. mar. Vegetation: Forest. wood, holt, -holt; thicket, covert; weald, wald, wold (firth, frith). B. -gethly, -gelly; chat-, -chett; coed, goed. G. killi.; derry, -dare. F. forest. Grove. -grove, -grave, -greave, graf-; shaw, shaugh, -shaw; -shot, -shott, shute; barrow, -bere, beare. (N. lund.) F. coppice, copse. Clearing. glade; leigh, lee, -leigh, -ley; rhode, rod, royd, ridding (-den). N. thwaite, -thwaite; G. magh. F. launde, lande. Meadow. mead, meadow; ham. G, clon-, cloon-; dal-. N. -sate. Heath. heath; moor; wold. B. ros-, ross, -rose. N. fell. G. ros-, .rose. F. waste. Habitation: Field. feld, field; acre. G. ach-, auch-, auchin-. Farm. wick, wyke, -wich, -ick, -ich; worth, -worthy. N. -by; thorp, thorpe. B. tre- (tref-). G. bally-, balla-, bal-. F. farm, grange. Homestead. ham; -ingham; wick, wyke, -wich, -ick, -ich. N. stead; taft, toft. Building. bolt-, bold, -bottle, bootle; house; -hall; mill; coat, coate, -cot, -cote; booth; scale, scales, scole, -skill. B. lis- (ty, dy). G. rath-; ty-. Hedge. haw, hag-, haigh-, -haugh. Enclosure, yard. haw, hag-, haigh-, -haugh; -ton, -town; worth, -worthy; hop-, hope, -op; croft, close, lock, pightle. N. garth, -guard, gart-. B. lan-. Village. -ton, -town; -ington (throp). N. -by; thorp, thorpe. B. tre-. G. bally-, balla-, bal-; pit-. F. ville. Town. chester-, -caster, -cester; -ton, -town. B. din-, den-, tin-. F. ville. Fort. bur-, -borough, -burgh, -bury; chester-, .caster, -cester. B. car- (caer, cair); din-, den-, tin-. G. cashel; dun-, down, downe, doun, doune; rath-. F. castle (fortress, peel). Tomb. .berrow, -borough, -bury; grave. F. tomb. Church, holy place. stoke, -stock; stow, stowe; church; -minster; steeple; cross (wee-, wy-, weo-; har-, harrow-; fane, shrine). N. kirk. B. lan- (eccles, eglo-). G. kil-, kill-. Meeting place. stoke, -stock; stow, stowe. Market. chip-, chep-. F. market. Well. well, wall; spring. G. tipper-, tober-. Wall. Style. Ditch. Dyke. Weir. weare, weir. Bridge. bridge. N. brigg. B. pons (bont, pont). G. drogh-, drochit. Road. road, rhod; way; street, strat-, stret-, streat-. N. gate. Path. lane, path, walk, drift, drove, row, track, wynd. Alley. alley; drang, droke, fennel, ginnel, jigger, loke, narrows, sneck, twitchel, twitten. Fork. fork, twissel, twitchel, twitchen. Crossroads. cross. Corner. end, nook; hearn, hurn; hal-, hale, haugh-, -hall, -all; wray, wro. Border. march, mark; riding, edge (rim). F. border, bourne. Province. county, shire. N. riding. F. province. Water: Water. water; ea-, -ey, ya-. B. dover, dour, -dovery. G. avon; usk, esk. Sea. sea. B. mor-. F. mer. Salt water. B. hayle, hel-. Lake. mer, mear, mar-, -mere. B. lin, lynn, lyn-. G. loch. F. lake. Pond. pond, pool. N. tarn. B. lin, lynn, lyn-; pol-, -pool. River. ea-, -ey, ya.(lynn; stream). B. avon. G. avon. F. river. Stream. brook, brooke; bourne, burn, -borne; fleet-; syke; well (latch, lach). N. -beck. B. glais-, glas (nant). G. glass-, -glas. F. lac, lake. Spring. spring; well. N. keld. Ford. ford; wade. N. waithe. B. -rith. G. bel-, bal-, balloch. F. traverse, travis. Land: Land. land. B. -tire. G. tir-, tyr-, -tire. Landing-place. hythe, -hithe, -th, -eth, -ey. Island. island, isle; ea-, ey, -y. N. -ey, -ay; holme. G. innes, inch. Cape. cape, head. N. -ness. B. blan-; pen-; -ryn. G. kin-. Shore. shore, sands, strand. B. -lan (treath, dreath). G. -trae, -try; air-, ar-. F. coast. Bank. oare, or, -ore. B. -lan. N. bank. Harbour. cove, harbour, haven, port. B. port, porth, borth; pol-, -pool. N. cove. Bay. bight. F. bay, gulf. Inlet. creek, crik. N. firth, -ford; wick. G. loch. Strait. sound. G. kyle. F. strait. Mouth. mouth. B. aber-. G. inver-. Sand-bank. N, -mel. Rock, reef. N. skerry, -scar, sgeir. Choose personal names from a suitable list (Anglo-Saxon, Briton, Norse, Gaelic), or from titles, and shorten and simplify as you see fit. Remember that '-ingham' and '-ington' endings should follow abbreviations of Anglo-Saxon names. Feel free to use redundant elements, since this was common: Wellbrook Stream, Ardmore Fell, Chesterton. The inhabitants themselves didn't know what half the elements in older names meant! Add any descriptive terms that seem to fit, such as those used in Medieval English nicknames. If you want an 'aged' sound, emulate the changes to words there and in the trees and animals given as examples above. Note also that British, especially English, family names include many place names, which should now be easily recognisable. You can use those names, vary elements in them, and use their beginnings as descriptive terms (as many probably were). They should sound right, even if the meaning is unclear. Meanings are secondary, mainly there to help construct names. While you may know that Caldwell once meant a cold spring, your players likely won't even think about it; it's just nice scenery. It's only if the scenic props fall over that people take special note of them. A few names of waterways are mentioned in the text above. If you need more and lack an atlas, surname elements or short older words (blithe, smite) should do for them as well. Ordinary descriptions in modern English should also be common - Newcastle, Devil's Ditch (for an ancient earthwork), and the like. Occasionally, a feature might take its whole name from a nearby entity: a wood might take its name from a village; a lake might take its name from a wood (as in Derwent Lake). See the Medieval English section for trades that can be used in street names. Often related trades would be found together, so for example, Fleshmonger, Tanner, and Shieldmaker streets might lie like pretty maids all in a row. Fretful Elements The elements in the list above are grouped by approximate meaning. Some were more specific, had two or more senses, or changed over time. Since place names described original features that might also change (an oak tree, a ford, someone's farm or home), and the descriptions might also be figurative or loose (describing a hollow as a valley or vice versa), this shouldn't matter for most purposes. Some terms are clarified below, however, for interest and accuracy. There were many words for stone, rock, or crag in rugged areas, but cairn means a heap of stones as opposed to a big or notable stone. Tors and crags are rocky outcrops. A hurst was a wooded hill. A howe was a spur of high land in English usage, any mound or hill in Norse, then came to mean a rounded hill as well. A mel was a bare hill, a tom a round one; a slieve a range of hills. Downs mean hills because you came 'adown' off them. Fell could mean a mountain, hill, or upland moor (the last especially when plural). Lows, laws, or barrows were small round hills (burial mounds included). A dyke could be a ditch or the bank beside it. Hollows, dells, or dingles are small depressions. Deans, denes, or dales are typical, usually gentle, valleys (a dean sometimes a wooded one); cooms (in all spellings) are deep valleys; gills and cloughs are ravines. Glens and glyns are narrow valleys, straths and ystrads wide ones. A hale was a corner in a valley. A wood or holt was a big forest, a shaw a small wood, and a grove anything from a small wood to a distinctive clump of trees. A thicket was dense, a covert a thicket sheltering game. A derry or dare was an oak-wood in particular.A wold originally meant wood (especially if spelled weald), but over time came to mean a tract of rolling open (especially upland) country, no doubt reflecting deforestation. A moor is a tract of open ground with low vegetation and peaty soil, which makes it damper, muddier, and mossier than the rougher heath; though heather grew on both, it took its name from the latter. A mead or meadow was pasture for growing hay; a field was arable land for crops, although it meant a cleared stretch of country very early on. A dal was and a ham could be a water meadow (one by a stream). A holme was a low, grassy island; a hope an enclosure amid fens. A lynch was a stretch of sandy ground, a smeath or magh any smooth flat place. A hough or hawe was a hedged place (most hedges were hawthorne). A rhode, royd, or ridding was a clearing in the woods where a horseman could ride; it later developed into the word 'road'. Twitchell and its variants could describe a narrow path, a forked path, a fork in a river, or the land in the V of such a fork. A well originally meant a spring, and by extension its brook. A stream meant a big river to start with, and was uncommon. A toft was the site of a former dwelling, scales were temporary huts, cotes huts or cottages, and a booth was a herdsman's hut or cow-house. A lis or rath was a hall or small court. Chester, caster, and cester came from the Roman castra, military camp, so could mean town or fort, depending on how the site was later used. A peel was a late-era defensive tower. Burg, a fortified place, had a soft ending; it was said 'burh', whence came borough and so on. Stoke was used for any holy place, Christian or pagan; minster came from monastery and kil from a monastic cell (it was later applied to churches); weo and harrow referred to old pagan sacred places. World Place Names Although English provides a rich source of place names for mainstream fantasy campaigns, it doesn't furnish local flavour for different cultures. Finnish characters in a land based on the Kalevala shouldn't live in a village called Dewbury. This section provides a few place-name elements in a selection of languages, so that you can string together elements to make plausible place names for those backgrounds. The faked names should at least have the right sound. In some cases, they will be correct too! For instance, if you take a real place name like Blackpool, and translate it into Gaelic, it would be literally dubh linne, that is, Dublin, in the local accent. In Finnish, volcano is tulivuori, literally tuli (fire) + vuori (mountain). Not everything will be so exact. To put words together properly, you need to know how the language works, and grammar is ignored here. The vocabulary is limited, but allows for hundreds of basic place names. Descriptive terms can be expanded by using people's names or parts thereof. Surnames in particular often contain vocabulary elements, and any name used in a place could refer Ancient Greek, Italian, Latin (Roman); Aboriginal, Maori to a settler: regardless, they will sound right for the region. In (Polynesian). Accents denote long vowels in the Greek, Arabic, modern times, and on maps, redundant terms are often added to and Maori lists. the native names for features. The lists are all arranged similarly, with the descriptions and For pronunciation, see the guidelines for the appropriate culture. features in the order in which the language commonly has them. The language lists are in the order that people's names appear in To get a term in the language you want, find it in the English list, the book: English, Welsh, Gaelic; Xhosa (African); Cherokee and look in the same relative place in the list for that language. (Amerindian); Chinese, Hindi (Indian), Japanese; Finnish, The lists are divided into small groups so that it is easy to locate French, German, Hungarian, Norse, Russian, Spanish; Arabic, the requisite element at a glance. English - Index Description: General. old, new, big, little / good, bad, dark, bright. Directions. high, low, over, under / north, south, east, west. Colours. black, blue, brown, green / grey, red, white, yellow. Feature: Relief. mountain, hill, cliff, cave / valley, swamp, desert. Vegetation. forest, grove, clearing, meadow, field. Habitation. home, village, town, city / fort, bridge, road, path. Water. water, sea, lake, pool / river, stream, ford, well. Land. land, island, shore, harbour / stone, fire. Welsh Description: General. hen, newydd, mawr, bach / mad, drwg, tywyll, gloyw. Directions. uchel, isel, tros, isod / gogleddol, tua'r deau, dwyrain, gorllewinol. Colours. du, glas, cocchdu, gwrydd / llwyd, coch, gwyn, melyn. Feature: Relief. mynydd, bryn, dibyn, ogof / dyffryn, cors, anialwch. Vegetation. coedwig, celli, llanerch, gwaun, cae. Habitation. cartref, pentref, tref, dinas / caer, pont, heol, llwybr. Water. dwfr, môr, llyn, pwllyn / afon, ffrwd, rhyd, ffynnon. Land. tir, ynys, traeth, porthladd / carreg, tân. Gaelic Feature: Relief. monadh, beinn, creag, uamh / gleann, féith, dìthreabh. Vegetation. coille, doire, blàr, àilean, achadh. Habitation. dachaigh, baile-beag, baile, cathair / dùn, drochaid, sràid, aisir. Water. uisge, muir, loch, linne / abhainn, sruth, àth, tobar. Land. tìr, innis, tràigh, cala / ail, teine. Description: General. sean, nuadh, mór, beag / math, dona, dorch, soillseach. Directions. àrd, domhain, os-cionn, fo / tuath, deas, ear, suas. Colours. dubh, gorm, donn, uaine / liath, ruadh, geal, buidhe. Xhosa (African) Feature: Relief. intaba, induli, inkemfu, umqolomba / intlambo, indibongo, intlango. Vegetation. ihlathi, igcume lemithi, ibala ehlathini, irhiwa, intsimi. Habitation. ikhaya, ilali, idolphu, isixeko / inqaba, ibrorho, istrato, indela. Water. amanzi, ulwandle, ichibi, ichibi-nciane / umlambo, umlanjana, izibuko, iquala. Land. umhlaba, isiquithi, unxweme, izibuko / ilitye, umlito. Description: General. -dala, -tsha, -khulu, -nciane / -lungile, -khohlakele, -mnyama, -khanya. Directions. -phezulu, -phantsi, phezulu kwa-, ngaphantsi kwa- / -entla, -emzantsi, -ngasempumalanga, -ngasentshonalanga. Colours. -mnyama, -luhlaza, -ntsundu, -luhlaza / .ngweru, -bomvu, -mhlophe, -lubhelu. Cherokee (Amerindian) Feature: Relief. atali, ga-du-si, ganugi, ustagalayi / ge-da-li-yv-i, egategawi, u-ka-yo-di nayu. Vegetation. a-do-hi, lvyi, so-ge-si, lagesi, gagesi. Habitation. o-we-nv-sv, sustiyi, gatugi, ga-du-hv-i / aniyaska nvayuda, a-su-tlv-i, ga-la-nv-da, nvnehi. Water. a-ma, a-ma egwa, unadelii, v-da-li / egwani, stewaya, asatvyi, amagwa. Land. gadawahi, amayeli, siastvyi, ugedaliyvi / nvyu, atsila. Description: General. agayvli, a-tse-hi, egwa, usdi / osda, usga astu, ul-sih-ga, utsistalu gisgi. Directions. galvladi, galvadeu, galvladidla, eladi / uhyvdlv, ugalayai, digalvgvyi, udiligvyi. Colours. gvnagei, sakonige, wadigei, atsehi / unega eusti, gigagei, unega, dalonige. Chinese Description: General. lau, syin, da, syau / hau, hwai, an, ming-lyang. Directions. gau, di, dzai...shang byan, dzai...sya myan / bei, nan, dung, syi. Colours. hei, lan, he-se de, lu / hwei, hung, bai, hwang. Feature: Relief. shan, syau shan, sywan-ya, shan-dung / shan-gu, jau-dze, sha-mwo. Vegetation. sen-lin, shu-lin, lin-zhyan kung-di, tsau-di, tyan-di. Habitation. zhya, tswun-dzih, jen, cheng-shr / bau-lei, chyau, zhye-dau, lu. Water. shwei, hai, hu-pwo, chr-tang / he.zhyang, syau-he, zhin, zhing. Land. lu-di, dau, bin, gang / shr, hwo. BOOK OF NAMES 156 Hindi (Indian) Description: General. prachina, nutana, bada, chhota / yatheshta, bura, ndherapana, chamakila. Directions. uncha, nicha, upara, tale / uttara, dakshina, purvi, pashchima. Colours. kala, nila, bhura, hara / dhuandara, lala, sapheda, sunahara. Feature: Relief. pahada, pahadi, tila, gupha / ghati, daladala, yogyata. Vegetation. jangala, kunja, vanamarga, charagaha, dhana. Habitation. ghara, ganva, kasba, nagara / gadhi, pula, gali, patha. Water. jala, samudra, jhila, pokhara / nadi, dhara, uthali jagaha, jharana. Land. prithvi, dvipa, samudra tata, bandaragaha / patharila, aga. Japanese Description: General. furui, atarashii, ôkii, chiisai / yoi, warui, koi, akiraka na. Directions. takai, hikui, no uye ni, no shita ni / kita, minami, higashi, nishi. Colours. kuroi, asagi iro, tobi-iro no, awoi / nezumi-iro no, okai, shiroi, ki-iroi. Feature: Relief. yama, takami, gake, hora-ana / tani, numa, sunabara. Vegetation. hayashi, mori, sekkai, maki-ba, hatake. Habitation. yado, mura, machi, tokai / daiba, hashi, tori, ko-michi. Water. midzu, umi, midzu-umi, ike / ôkawa, kawa, kachi-watari, ido. Land. jikata, shima, hama, minato / ishi, hi. Finnish Description: General. vanha, uusi, iso, pieni / hyvä, paha, pimeä, loistava. Directions. korkea, matala, yllä, alla / pohjois-, etelä-, itä-, länsi-. Colours. musta, sininen, ruskea, vihreä / harmaa, punainen, valkoinen, keltainen. Feature: Relief. vuori, mäki, kallio, luola / laakso, suo, auatiomaa. Vegetation. metsä, lehto, metsäaukio, niitty, pelto. Habitation. koti, kylä, kaupunki, kaupunki / linna, silta, katu, polku. Water. vesi, meri, järvi, lammikko / joki, puro, kahlaamo, kaivo. Land. maa, saari, ranta, satama, kivi, tuli. French Feature: Relief. montagne, colline, falaise, caverne / vallée, marais, désert. Vegetation. forêt, bocage, chirière, pré, champ. Habitation. foyer, village, bourg, ville / fort, pont, rue, sentier. Water. eau, mer, lac, étang / rivière, ruisseau, gué, puits. Land. terre, île, rivage / port, pierre, feu. Description: General. vieux, nouveau, grand, petit / bon, mauvais, sombre, clair. Directions. haut, bas, sur, sous / nord, sud, est, ouest. Colours. noir, bleu, brun, vert / gris, rouge, blanc, jaune. German Description: General. alt, neu, gross, klein / gut, schlect, dunkel, hell. Directions. hoch, niedrig, über, unter / nord, süd, ost, west. Colours. schwarz, blau, braun, grün / grau, rot, weiss, gelb. Feature: Relief. berg, hügel, kliff, höhle / tal, sumpf, wüste. Vegetation. wald, wäldchen, lichtung, wiese, feld. Habitation. heim, dorf, stadt, stadt / burg, brücke, strasse, weg. Water. wasser, meer, see, teich / fluss, bach, furt, brunnen. Land. land, insel, strand, hafen / stein, feuer. Hungarian Description: General. régi, új, nagy, kis / jó, rossz, sötét, világos. Directions. magas, alacsony, felett, alatt / északi, déli, keleti, nyugati. Colours. fekete, kék, barna, zöld / szürke, piros, fehér, sárga. Feature: Relief. hegy, domb, szikla, barlang / völgy, mocsár, puszta. Vegetation. erdô, liget, tisztás, rét, mezô. Habitation. haza, falu, város, város / erôd {vár}, hid, utca, ösvény. Water. víz, tenger, tó, tó / folyó, patak, gázló, kút. Land. föld, sziget, part, kikötô / kô, tüz. Norse Description: General. aldinn, nyr, mikill, lágr / fagr, illr, myrkr, bjartr. Directions. hár, nethar, yfir, nethri / northr, suthr, austr, vestr. Colours. svartr, blár, blakkr, groenn / grár, rauthr, hvítr, gull. Feature: Relief. fell, hoeth, bjarg, hellir / dalr, myrr, óbygth. Vegetation. vithr, holt, rjóthr, eng, akr. Habitation. heim, landnám, borg, borg / virki, brú, gata, leith. Water. logr, aegir, vatn, hylr / á, loekr, vath, vel. Land. Land, land, ey, fit, hofn / steinn, eldr. Russian Description: General. starouy, novouy, bolshoi, malenkhey / choroshey, plochoi, tohmnouy, yarkeh. Directions. vousokey, nehzkey, nal-, pol- / severnaya, youzhouy, vostok, zapad. Colours. chohrouy, sehneva, korychneouy, zelohnouy / serouy, krasnouy, belaya, zhohltouy. Feature: Relief. gora, choltz, ootohs, peschera / dolehna, bolóto, poostouna. Vegetation. lesz, róscha, polyana, loog, pole. Habitation. dom, derévaya, grad, gorod / zamok, most, oolytza, tropa. Water. voda, more, ozero, prood / reka, rechka, brod, kolodetz. Land. zemlyá, ostrov, béreg, gavanh / kamenh, ogonh. Spanish Description: General. antiguo, nuevo, grande, pequeño / bueno, malo, oscuro, brillante. Directions. alto, bajo, encima de, debajo de / norte, sur, este, oeste. Colours. negro, azul, marrón, verde / gris, rojo, blanco, amarillo. Feature: Relief. montaña, colina, acantilado, cueva / valle, pantano, desierto. Vegetation. bosque, bosquecillo, claro, prado, campo. Habitation. casa, aldea, pueblo, ciudad / fuerte, puente, calle, sendero. Water. agua, mar, lago, laguna / río, arroyo, vado, pozo. Land. tierra, isla, orilla, puerto / piedra, fuego. Arabic Description: General. kadîm, jadîd, jasîm, sagîr / khayr, sharrîr, muzlimat, jalî. Directions. murtafi, watî, ala', taht / shimâlî, janûb, mashrik, maghrib. Colours. aswad, azrak, asmar, akhdar / sinjâbî, ahmar, abyad, asfar. Feature: Relief. jabal, tall, sakhrat, maghârat / wâdî, wahlat, barriyat. Vegetation. hirsh, ghâbat, -, marj, mazraat. Habitation. bayt, karyah, balad, madînat / kalat, jisr, zukâk, tarîk. Water. mâ, bahr, bi hayrat, hawd / nahr, sâkiyah, maktanahr, bîr. Land. ard, jazîrat, sâhil al bahr, mînâ / hajar, nâr. Ancient Greek Feature: Relief. oros, lophos, petra, opêlaion / nape, limnê, erêmia. Vegetation. hylê, alsos, napê, leimôn, agros. Habitation. oikos, kômê, asty, polis / teikhos, gephyra, hodos, tribos. Water. hydôr, thalassa, limnê, telma / potamos, hroê, poros, phrear. Land. gê, nêsos, aktê, limên / lithos, pur. Description: General. geraios, neos, megas, mikros / agathos, kakos, episkios, lampros. Directions. hypsêlos, brakhys, hyper, hypo / boreios, notios, antelios, hesperios. Colours. melas, kyanous, orphninos, khloros / glaukos, erythros, leukos, xanthos. Italian Feature: Relief. montagna, collina, scogliera, caverna / valle, palude, deserto. Vegetation. foresta, boschetto, raduar, prato, campo. Habitation. casa, villaggio, paese, città / forte, ponticello, strada, sentiero. Water. acqua, mare, lago, stagno / fiume, ruscello, guado, pozzo. Land. terreno, isola, riva, porto / pietra, fuoco. Description: General. vecchio, nuovo, grande, piccolo / buono, cattivo, buio, brillante. Directions. alto, basso, sopra, sotto / nord, sud, est, ovest. Colours. nero, azzurro, marrone, verde / grigio, rosso, bianco, giallo. Latin (Roman) Feature: Relief. mons, collis, rupes, specus / valles, palus, deserta. Vegetation. silva, nemus, nemus, pratum, ager. Habitation. domus, pagus, oppidum, urbs / castellum, pons, via, semita. Water. aqua, mare, lacus, lacuna / flumen, rivulus, vadum, puteus. Land. terra, insula, litus, portus / lapis, ignis. Description: General. senex, novus, magnus, parvus / bonus, malus, obscurus, clarus. Directions. altus, humilis, supra, infra / septentrionalis, meridianus, orientalis, occidentalis. Colours. niger, caeruleus, fulvus, viridis / canus, ruber, albus, flavus. Aboriginal Feature: Relief. barree, banool, buku, narkindie / plurampe, tainke, pindan. Vegetation. kiam-bram, wirra, akethe, (korra), (burn). Habitation. ngurra, ballarat, (upmurra), (oorla) / -, -, -, yarluke. Water. quasha, warringa, mungkule, billabong / billa, mubboon, penghanah, narrawa. Land. pelepe, kallakkure, dilkera, - / merri, wur. Description: General. yande, mokari, proi, gidju / nunkeri, thulga, moonga, ngorkulle. Directions. booral, kwene, booloot, moru / alinjarra, mirreeu, gurra, dinjerra. Colours. marroo, woorkarrim, puluy, iterika / kenkulun, gwai, balpi, yarragal. Maori (Polynesian) Feature: Relief. maunga, puke, pari, ana / riu, repo, koraha. Vegetation. wao, uru, ahaaha, tarutaru, pârae. Habitation. marae, kâinga, (taone), (taone nui) / pa, arahanga, huarahi, ara. Water. wai, moana, roto, hâroto / awa, pukaki, kauanga, poka. Land. whenua, moutere, âkau, aka / pohatu, ahi. Description: General. tahito, hou, nui, iti / pai, kino, pango, kanapa. Directions. tiketike, pâpaku, runga, raro / raki, tonga, whiti, uru. Colours. pango, kikorangi, pâkâkâ, kouru / hama, whero, mâ, kôwhai. BOOK OF NAMES 158 Notes The Chinese is a modified Yale transcription of Mandarin. The ellipses in the terms meaning upper and lower indicate where the word they apply to should go. The Russian -gorod for town or city is modern, -grad is poetic. The Aboriginal words come from a variety of native tongues, and can be found in place names around Australia. There are no native words for town, city, and so on; words for 'camp' are used. Likewise, the Maori word for town is taken from English. Such terms are in parentheses; dashes appear where no close term was found. If you're making up many place names, it is best to work with a large (perhaps historical) atlas. You can then use elements from the lists to create logical variations of real place names. An atlas also reveals more name patterns and endings (for instance, Indian names often end with -pur or -por, from the Sanskrit for fort; Arabic names often start with the definite article, as in Al Fashn; land was feminine in Latin, so Roman-named territories usually ended with -a or -ia, whereas towns ended in -um or -ium; and so on). To create similar element lists for other languages, use foreign-language dictionaries. Embellish the names with elements from atlases and people's names. Remember that words may change with context, more so in inflected languages like Latin and Greek. Just use word stems, if you wish: time and usage may erode endings. If you are really keen, learn the language! Fantastic Place Names The balance of real and fantastic names depends on the game milieu. You may have or want completely imaginary soundscapes, in which case you can choose place names from the generic fantasy lists without much ado. Real-world names may be used for vast swathes of territory; after all there are ordinary people in the world, so why not ordinary place names? If so, modern and medieval place-name elements give you plenty to work with. Usually some mix of the semi-predictable and exotic works best, both in types of names and name structures. The bulk of place names are landscape features, principally settlements, so we'll start with them. Using real descriptive place names as a basis makes the creation of fantastic names much easier, but mundane place names in fantasy don't have to be boring! Just add a bit of imagination. Part of the richness of fantasy is in the verbal trimmings - words like redoubt, citadel, stronghold, realm, throne, clarion may be old, but burn bright, unlike the puffy polysyllabic psychobabble that chokes the language today. Use clear, strong, short words; be ardent, not abstract; and every hamlet and borderland keep will come alive. Mix in a few vivid and vital terms with the staple elements to get names like Runewood, Saberedge, Deepdale, Mageby, and Foamdock. Descriptive terms would include wondrous creatures, plants, and items, all simply part of the world, of course: Dragonspine Ridge, Trollhollow, Jewel Ford, Satyrgrove, Dagger Peak, Red Lotus Pools, Snakewrithe Fens, Unicorn River. Of the typical fantasy flavour names, some are just lyrical descriptions: the City of Dreaming Spires (Oxford dressed up), Keep of Starry Desolation, Dimshadow Marsh. This is fine if you have a poetic bent and can choose something that rings true. Such names can be a bit flat all alone, though, and it is possible to overdo it. “Cross the River of Blood to the Darkling Forest; therein a shadowed track winds to the Vale of Maiden's Tears, which girds the Garden of Lost Souls and the Accursed Fountain that ye seek.” At the other extreme, all names might be made up. The elements of place names can be mixed with invented syllables and words to get names that are familiar in form but fantastic in colouring: Veldarton, Heledrios Forest, Maurfang, Ashornham, the Fastness of Calion. This applies to names of any culture. For instance, in a fantasy country based on Germany, half the settlement names might end in -dorf, -stadt, or -burg. You can scatter a few mundane local names here and there (Hoffmanstadt and so on). Mixing the endings with invented elements, however, gives you a whole range of names (Zilidorf, Floogstadt, Vrazburg) that are novel, but still convey a sense of place. Names are rarely all of one type, so for variety add in the odd town name with no obvious pattern, like Muntle or Xidthassu. If the sounds of the invented additions are more or less right, everything will appear seamless. Plain English labels (the Black Forest, Izmer River, and so on) are still good for many features, since the native elements are only there for atmosphere, and you wouldn't require players to speak the language of the country. Descriptive names can be made completely exotic by using fantastic elements for features as well. To make the land feel lived in, you should vary terms for the same feature, but make some terms more frequent to avoid a haphazard look. Choose a number of elements for descriptions, features, and towns from the syllable tables. If you choose distinct groups of syllables for different regions, you can create distinct place-name styles. The syllables can be combined with generic fantastic names, names for native races and people, and so on, for places galore. A Thousand Vales and Villages With all the possible ways to name places, you might not know which to choose. A useful mix of name types for most fantasy worlds can be generated by the ‘one table to pool them all’ below. Roll a d30 on the Fantasy Place Names table, then construct a name in that general form. Perhaps 1 in 3 mundane names should use a person’s name or part of it for a descriptive term, and half the habitations should be described as landscape features (Edgecombe) rather than as dwelling places (Edgeton). Table 4-2: Fantasy Place Names    D30  Result  Examples   01-09  Base Mundane Name  Greenhill, Stoneybeck,  Stockton-on-Tees   10-17  Base + Vivid Element  Shadowtown, Talonford,  Drakeshaws  18-25  Base + Fantasy Element  Targthorpe, Zerenport,  Snarisquilp Mire   26-29  Fantasy Name  Eldarim, Nairndalf, Quirvel   30  Vivid phrase  Desert of Purple Sands,  Dreaming Trees  The base mundane name uses place-name elements from the particular culture for the region, to set the core flavour. The standard fantasy base would be a mix of modern and medieval English terms, as shown in the table examples. Other lands would use their own place-name elements, say, Chinese in a fantasy Far Cathay. Use the lists from the World Place Names section for real exotic names; your own list of fantastic elements if you have devised one you want to use in an area. For fantasy names and elements, choose a name from the generic fantasy lists, a syllable or two from the strange syllables lists, or perhaps generate a name using the tables for various creature archetypes. Adjust the results to suit. Fantasy names can stand alone as habitation names, but generally need an explanatory term if they apply to other features - the Ruins of Wyxef, Spride Weir, Kreogsward. (Such a term will keep the wilder fantasy names grounded.) Use possessive or adjectival endings if it sounds better: Aslan's How, Veruxian Hills. The very act of naming may inspire background details and legends. Even if you're using other languages, the 'vivid' descriptions should still be in English. Use any archaic words, magical beings, or colourful items or tags that would suit the place, such as the descriptive terms elsewhere in this book. See World Builder (vol. II in this series) for more. A few personal qualities such as 'grim' might be useful elements. Longer ones can be shortened to avoid clumsiness but still hint at meaning. Stalwood might bring stalwart to mind; Agramoor, aggression. Two-word phrase-names epithets can make good place names too: Spidersoul Swamp, Breakleg Ridge, Silverthroat Falls; perhaps Split Rock or Riven Dell.... As with longer epithets, longer names are fun, but should be used judiciously. They can be expansions of more compact phrases - Marsh of Dim Shadows rather than Dimshadow Marsh. Use whatever form works best. They can often hint at particular marvels or menaces, but may simply be atmospheric: the Screaming Sands, Caverns of Burning Ice, Lake of Doleful Isles, Forest of Mossy Bones, Citadel of Inward Dusk, Plateau of the Death Wind. Be prepared to back them up with good adventures, because names like this attract players like bonfires attract giant moths! Countries and Regions Countries (and indeed worlds and star systems, if it comes to that) can be named almost anything. See Appendix B for some real countries: a few end in -land (Scotland, Swaziland); a few in its equivalent, -stan (Kazakhstan, Kurdistan). Classical influence means many (in English form) end in -ia, a few less in -a. To create a fantasy land, just choose a generic fantasy name, say, Carthis. This might work well enough by itself, but adding a suffix to get Carthisia makes it sound highly like a country - we automatically assume its inhabitants must be Carthisians, and so on. Armenian family names often end in -ian, so can be used as a source of instant country names just by lopping off the last letter, and perhaps altering a syllable to disguise them further. You can coin or choose your own suffix syllables meaning 'land' (-dor perhaps) and so on to give your world its own flavour. If you have many countries to name, use a few different endings to show regional preferences: not only the mainstream Kaledor, Valdor, Laumador, and the like, but also Mocrait and Rassmurait, and a few that follow no particular pattern: Harac, Zokend, Vuul. Provinces follow much the same norms, but are more likely to include some sort of descriptive term (as in the modern and medieval place-name lists): West Carthis, Yallowshire, Felk Riding, the Zrathian March. Inns and Taverns Public houses in various forms are common to all civilised societies, providing places for relaxed social gatherings, refreshment in the form of food and drink, and often lodgings as well. The terms inn and tavern became confused at an early stage, but initially, inns received guests, and so were open all hours, and taverns were places for drinking and casual refreshment, and were closed for some part of the day or night. The terms are used synonymously here, but you may want to differentiate them. At any rate, inns and taverns should be numerous in most fantasy campaign worlds: rather than the current ratio of one per 1000 people, perhaps one per 200-500, with a minimum of one per village. The campaign will determine the clientele and atmosphere of the places, now you just need to name them. History In Roman times, taverns might simply be marked by a wine-jar painted on the wall, or a bunch of evergreens tied to a pole in reference to Bacchus, god of wine. In medieval cities, trades began to congregate on specific streets, so the taverns needed individual signs: these were pictorial, since illiteracy was common at all levels of society, and displaying a name would have been useless. When few could read, a dog or a bent piece of wood painted on a board identified the inn as the Sign of the Hound or the Crooked Billet. The inn sign thus came first and the name was derived from it. The paintings could be quite sophisticated, but were sometimes poor enough that an intended Black Swan might be called a Mucky Duck. These local descriptions could result in the sign being changed to match. Aristocrats often owned taverns or the lands on which they stood, so their coats of arms or emblems from them were used as signs, giving rise to the King’s Arms, Sir Malcolm’s Arms, and so on, and more commonly to heraldic devices such as the Red Lion or Blue Boar. Such signs might also express an owner’s allegiance to the throne or a local lord. Signs such as the Gardener’s Arms are usually a modern conceit, but some city taverns were owned by chartered guilds or otherwise catered to professions. Weavers might dine at the Weavers’Arms or the Loom, farriers drink at the Forge. Some inns started life as hospices or hostelries established by religious orders, and so were identified by religious symbols such as the Angel or Cross Keys. The crests and names of popular heroes were also used: there was a Robin Hood Inn as early as 1292, and signs featuring Saint George were and are frequent. Publicans in 15th century England were required by law to show signs outside their inns. As signs multiplied, stranger combinations were used, likely for distinctiveness, but perhaps also in imitation of heraldic differencing. Popular Pubs: Anchor,Angel, Bell, Bull, Coach and Horses, Crown, George, George and Dragon, King’s Head, New Inn, Plough, Red Lion, Rose and Crown, Royal Oak, Swan, White Hart, White Horse ‘Inn Dex’ of Tavern Titles To generate a fantasy-medieval tavern sign, roll d%, consult the Base Tavern Titles Table, and choose one or more parts from the indicated list or lists. The sign description is the base name of the tavern. If it sounds better, you can append Inn or Tavern (or Alehouse, Cellar, Meadhall, Nook, Rest, Resthouse, Retreat, and so on), or precede the name with ‘Sign of the’ or ‘Inn of the’ .this will indicate local practice or any caption. For instance, a d% roll of 11 means a creature: we get a Dolphin, so the tavern is the Dolphin, the Dolphin Inn, the Dolphin Tavern, or the Sign of the Dolphin, as you like. (see table below) Base Tavern Titles   D%  Result  Examples  01-13  Creature  Griffin, Wolf  14-20  Person  Jester, Goose Girl  21-30  Item  Harp, Moon, Oak  31-33  Coat of Arms  King’s Arms, Weavers’ Arms  34-36  LocationLakeshore,  Old Bridge  37-38  Owner  Slorg’s Cellar  39-40  Feature (roll d20 on this table)  Dragon’s Head  41-70  Description + roll d30 on this table  Green Star, Three Stags  71-00  Roll d30 + and + roll d30  Bear and Barrel, Lion & Unicorn  For ease of use, some of the following lists are divided into named groups, with common examples noted. A few synonyms or related terms in parentheses may follow an example, so you can alliterate (Golden Goblet, Fox & Firkin) and so on. Creature Common: Beast: bear, boar, bull, fox, hart, hind, horse, lamb, lion, ram, roebuck, wolf. Bird: cock, crane, duck, eagle, falcon, goose, peacock, pelican, pheasant, raven, swallow, swan. Fish: dolphin, eel, lamprey, minnow, pike, trout. Magical: angel, cockatrice, dragon, griffin, mermaid, pegasus, phoenix, salamander, sea-lion, sea-serpent, unicorn, wyvern. BOOK OF NAMES 162 Beast: ant (emmet), ape, badger (brock), bat, bear, beaver, bee, beetle, boar (hog, pig, sow), bull (cow, calf), camel, cat, centipede, coney (rabbit), crocodile, deer (brockett, buck, doe, fawn, hart, hind, roe, roebuck, stag), donkey (ass), elephant, ferret, fitch (fitchet, polecat), fly, fox (vixen), frog, glow-worm, goat, grasshopper, hare, hedgehog, horse (mare, stallion, charger, courser, destrier, palfrey), hound (dog, talbot), leopard, lion, lizard, mole, mouse, newt, otter, ox, panther, pony, porcupine, rat, scorpion, seal, sheep (ewe, lamb, ram), snake (adder, serpent, viper), spider, squirrel, stoat, tiger, toad, tortoise, vole, weasel, wolf Bird: bird, cock (hen, pullet), coot, cormorant, crane, crow (raven, rook, corbie), cuckoo, dove, duck (drake, sheldrake), eagle, finch, goose (gander), grouse, gull, hawk (falcon, goshawk, merlin), heron, jay, kingfisher, lark, nightingale, osprey, ostrich, owl, parrot, partridge, peacock, pelican, pheasant, pie (magpie), pigeon, plover, quail, rail, robin, sparrow, starling, stork, swallow (martlet), swan, swift, thrush, woodcock, woodpecker, wren Fish: barbel, barnacle, burbot, carp, cockle, crab, crayfish, dolphin, eel, fish, flounder, herring, lamprey, lobster, minnow, mussel, octopus, oyster, pike (luce, lucy), plaice, porpoise, roach, salmon, shark, sprat, sturgeon, trout, whale Magical: angel, basilisk, camelopard, centaur, chimera, cockatrice, cyclops, devil, dragon (drake), dwarf, elf, enfield, gargoyle, giant, gnome, goblin, golem, griffin (gryphon), harpy, hydra, ibex, manticore, mermaid, merman, nymph, ogre, opinicus, panther, pegasus, phoenix, salamander, satyr, sea-lion, sea-serpent, siren, sphinx, sylph, triton, troll, tyger, unicorn, wyvern Most of the magical creatures should be well-known. Of the other heraldic ones: The enfield has a fox’s head, a wolf’s body, hind legs, and tail, and an eagle’s forelegs and talons. The opinicus has a griffin’s head, neck, and wings, a lion’s body, and a bear’s tail. The tyger looks like lion with down-curving tusk on its nose. The ibex has a tyger’s body, serrated horns, and deer legs. The heraldic panther is ‘incensed’, that is, fire-breathing. The camelopard is a giraffe (presumed mythical by heralds). Person Common: hero, hunter, king, knight, maid, man, queen, sailor, shepherd, traveller Noble: baron, count, duke, earl, king, lady, lord, marquess, prince, princess, queen Military: archer (bowman), crusader, hero, heroine, knight, pikeman, soldier (fighter, warrior), squire, swordsman Rural: hunter, herder, drover, fisher, forester (woodward), fowler, goat boy, goose girl, dairyman (day, cow-herd), ploughman, shepherd, swineherd Official: bailiff, champion, constable, executioner, guard (ward), judge (justice), reeve, sheriff Crafts: blacksmith (farrier), bowyer, carpenter (wright), cobbler, cooper, fletcher, mason, potter, tailor, turner, weaver Learned: doctor (sawbones), sage, scholar, scribe (clerk), wizard (enchantress) Religious: abbot, bishop, druid, friar, monk, nun, pilgrim, pope, priest, prior, saint Diversion: dancer, fiddler, harper, jester (buffoon, fool, harlequin), minstrel (jongleur), piper, player, singer Lowlife: bandit, beggar, harlot, highwayman, knave, pirate, rogue, strumpet, thief Various: amazon, baker, barbarian, brewer, cook, couple, crone, ferryman, fishwife, gardener, greybeard, gypsy, maid (girl, lass, maiden, virgin, wench), man, merchant (mercer, monger), miller, miner, nomad, sailor (tar, seaman, mariner, salt), savage, tinker, traveller, vintner, wanderer, woman, youth (boy, child, lad) Those in this list should be identifiable by conventional appearance, context, or accoutrements (crown, armour, potter’s wheel). A hero or saint, and often a royal personage, will be a famous, recognisably portrayed individual, whether dead or alive (Robin Hood, Merlin, and so on). Name to suit your campaign. Item Common: anchor, bell, cask, castle, crown, cup, harp, oak, plough, rose, sun, vine Drink: cask (barrel, butt, firkin, hogshead, keg, kilderkin, pipe, tun), cup (beaker, glass, goblet, horn, jack, mug, pot, tankard), jug (bottle, demijohn, flagon, flask, pitcher, wineskin) Food: apple, apricot, bacon, berries, board, bowl, cheese, cherry, eggs, fig, grapes, loaf, mushroom, nuts, olive, orange, peach, pear, pie, platter, plum, pomegranate, quince, roast Plant: acorn, apple tree, apricot tree, ash tree, barley, birch, branch, briar, broom, bulrush, bush, cherry tree, crab-apple tree, elm, fern, fig tree, flower (bluebell, lily, rose, fleur-de-lis, trefoil, quatrefoil, cinquefoil), garland, hawthorn, hazel, holly, hops, ivy, lotus, mallow, mandrake, mushroom, nut, oak, olive, orange tree, palm tree, peach tree, pear tree, plum tree, quince tree, root, rowan, rushes, sheaf, stump, thistle, toadstool, tree, vine, wheat, willow, yew Musical: drum, fiddle, fife, flute, harp, horn, lute, lyre, mandolin, pipe, rebec, sackbut, shawm, tabor, trumpet (clarion), whistle Weapon: arrow, axe, bill (bill-hook), bow, crossbow, cudgel (billet), dagger, dart, flail, halberd, hammer, javelin, lance, mace, morning star, pike, sling, spear, staff, sword (cutlass, rapier, scimitar, sabre), trident Worn: armour, boot, buckle, cloak (mantle), coronet, crown, gauntlet, glove, hat (cap), hood (cowl), hose, helm, mask, quiver, ring, robe, sleeve (maunch), snood, spur, tabard (doublet, jerkin), wig Celestial: cloud, moon, rainbow, star, sun, thunderbolt, zodiac Various: anchor, anvil, arrowhead, awl, ball, banner, beacon, beehive, bell, bellows, boat, book, boulder, brazier, bridge, bridle, brook, broom, bucket, caltrap, candle, candlestick, cart (wagon, wain), castle, cauldron, chain, chest, chisel, circle, cleaver, coach, coin, crescent, crook, cross, crystal ball, fireball, flag, fleece, fountain, gate, gateway, gem, hammer (mallet), hand (fist, palm), harpoon, harrow, hook, horseshoe, inkhorn, kettle, key, knife, lamp, lantern (lanthorn), lock, loom, needle, nest, net, pentacle, plough, portcullis, pouch, quill, rope, saddle, sail, saw, sceptre, scroll, scythe, shears, shell, shield, ship, shuttle, sickle, snuffer, spike, staff, stone, talisman, tinderbox, tongs, torch (flambeau), tower, trident, trivet, wand, well, wheel, whip, whirlpool, windmill The list of items can be extended to suit. See, for instance, World Builder (vol. II in this series), which also tells you the capacity of all those casks and more! Taverns and the Coat of Arms A coat of arms will usually be that of royalty (King’s Arms), local nobility (Duke’sArms, Sir Crispian’s Arms), or a noble hero or heroine (Gilrain’s Arms). It may denote ownership, fealty, or praise. People will recognise coats of arms just as we recognise trademarks today. In cities and large towns, chartered guilds (that is, those granted arms) may own or frequent taverns, in which case their coats of arms may also be used (the Arms of the Worshipful Company of Weavers, est. 1155, and so on). A list of possible guilds is given in The Canting Crew (vol. I in this series), along with a selection of ready-made inn and tavern names. Location The location from which the tavern takes its sign and name will be a current or former building, feature, or landmark on site or nearby (rarely, the name of its street or village or shire). Past features may be prefixed by ‘old’(Old Forge, Old Well, Old Ferryboat). Names of people associated with the feature may be added (Offa’s Dyke, Hadrian’s Wall, the Wizard’s Tower, King’s Cross). You may want to consider local legends under this heading as well. Location: arbour (bower), archway, baths, blasted oak, boundary stone, bridge, brook (stream, river), castle, cave, cellar, church, cliff, crag, crossroads (cross), dock, dungeon, dyke, ferry, forge, fork, gallows, gardens, gate, grotto, grove, hill, house, island, lake, lakeshore, market, mill, pier, pillar, pool, post, pump, quarry, ravine, riverside, ruins, sea, ship, shore, shoreline, spire, spring, stables, standing stone, stocks, tollgate, tower, wall, waterfall, waterside, wayside, weir, well, wood Owner This will have a portrait or visage, and perhaps a caption, identifying the owner of the establishment (Mother Merla’s, and so on). Use the lists of names elsewhere in this book to name the taverner. Owning an inn seems to be the done thing for many retired adventurers, so past characters from a campaign can always turn up. Feature A feature is a part of a creature or person, almost always a head .not severed, just a partial depiction! The d20 roll will indicate a creature (Boar’s Head, Bull’s Head, Lion’s Head) or person (King’s Head, Maiden’s Head, Child’s Head). Occasionally (1 in 6), you may wish to vary this with another prominent feature: Stag’s Antlers, Cat’s Paw, Eagle’s Talon, Fox’s Tail, Giant’s Foot, Mailed Fist (for a knight’s hand), or Harlot’s Leg (perhaps in downmarket districts). Description Common: black, blue, golden, green, jolly, red, royal, three, two, white Colour: black, blue, brown, chequered, green, grey, orange, pied, pink, purple, red, spotted, white, yellow Substance: brass (brazen), bronze, copper, crystal, glass, golden, granite, iron, ivory, jade, leather, marble, silver, steel, stone, wooden Numbers: Roll d20: (1-5) two, (6-9) three, (10-12) four, (13-15) five, (16) six, (17-18) seven, (19) eight, (20) nine Various: angry, bad, barking, big, bitten, blind, blithe, bonny, brimming, broken, buxom, capering, cloven, cosy, crazy, crooked, crossed, crying, dancing, dark, dour (grumpy), drinking (quaffing), drunken, falling, fat (stout), feasting, fiery (flaming), fighting, fishing, flying, frosty (hoary, icy), glowing, good, growling, hearty, hooded, holy, howling, hungry, hunting, jolly (cheery, grinning, happy, laughing, merry, smiling), jousting, kicking, kissing, lazy, leaping, little (tiny), lone, lucky, mad (crazy), mossy, mucky (dirty, muddy), new, nodding, odd, pale, prancing, ragged, rising, roaring, royal, rugged, running, sad, savage, shining, singing, sleepy, sorry, surprised, swimming, timid, toasting, wanton, waving, wild, windy, wise Colours and substances can be applied generally (Blue Sun, Iron Ox, Pied Piper). Usually an adjective applies to an item and an activity to a creature or person, but use, and add, anything for which you can imagine a picture (Bitten Quince, Cloven Viscount, Drowned Rat, Mossy Tortoise, Winsome Wench). Sticklers may wish to note that ‘orange’ wasn’t used as a term for the colour until the late Renaissance (‘golden’ was used instead), although the fruit was known much earlier. Numbers can be interpreted reasonably freely. Use synonyms for variety, such as brace, twin, pair, or double for two (Brace of Pheasants). Two weapons would usually be crossed (Crossed Pikes). Two creatures may be a mated pair (Fox & Vixen, Hart & Hind). More than two may be a mother and young (Fox & Cubs, Hen & Chickens) or a collection (Flock of Birds, Herd of Oxen). The number could also refer to a part of a creature (Swan with Two Necks, Six-leggèd Dog, Double-headed Lion). Combination Any combination can be used, in whatever order seems best. Alter the result a little if the items and creatures seem to lend themselves to it: make Coach & Horse, say, into Coach & Horses. Ahammer and hand might be Hammer in Hand. A knight and horse would likely be the Mounted Knight. A raven and nest would be Raven’s Nest (or Crow’s Nest for a seaside inn, with a ‘sea change’ in the picture, naturally). For another creature, you might change nest to lair, burrow, and so on (Bear’s Den, Badger’s Sett). When the item with a creature is apparel, it is usually worn, so a combination of armour and hog or dog and doublet would be Hog in Armour or Dog in a Doublet (both real pubs, by the way). More frequent line-ups tend to be heraldic or refer to well-known phrases and fables (Fox & Grapes, Hare & Tortoise, Bird in the Hand, Puss in Boots). Possible Themes These lists of thematic elements in signs should help you quickly generate inns to suit certain settings. Rural: badger, boar, bull, bush, cock, drover, fox, goose, harrow, hart, hind, horse, oak, plough, scythe, shears, sheep, shepherd, stump, wheatsheaf Urban: bell, cask, castle, crown, cup, gate, portcullis, torch, tower, weapon [+ guild arms and trade symbols] Maritime: anchor, dolphin, eel, fisher, herring, lamprey, mermaid, net, pelican, sea-lion, shell, ship Magical: book, circle, crystal ball, mandrake, pentacle, robe, scroll, staff, talisman, wand, wizard, zodiac Religious: animals, servitors, and symbols of campaign deities. Tavern Notes This system can generate many thousands of tavern names. You can create more by tweaking signs a bit: if the Armoured Horse lacks zest, make it the Barded Destrier; the Bear & Staff or Sun & Moon might be expanded to the Bear & Ragged Staff or Laughing Sun & Crying Moon; and so on. The sign suggestions come from known medieval signs, heraldic emblems, and generic fantasy archetypes. They can easily be developed to suit your campaign or game system. Flora and fauna can be substituted for inns in different locales: a South American influence might bring in agouti, condor, jaguar, llama, monkey-puzzle tree, and so on. System-specific monsters can be added. If your game uses Classes or Orders, their guilds and vocations can add to the Coat of Arms and Person lists. The latter can be augmented with recognisable nationalities and personalities from the campaign as well. Player heroes could even aspire to have taverns named after them (Sir Thurston’s Folly, perhaps). Simply ringing the changes on existing tavern names will not always get good results, so you might ponder a little before unleashing a savage thesaurus at innocent signage. If you intend to suggest a medieval atmosphere, the Purple Hound might work as a sign, but the Heliotrope Schnauzer would not. Few folk would know such an esoteric term for purple, or could tell the exact shade. (“I think it be puce, Rauff.” “Nay, ’tis mauve, Bertold, or mayhap fuschia.”) Furthermore, the schnauzer and many other dog breeds arose in the last two centuries, and just would not have been around. On the other hand, sign components could happily be changed to synonyms when it helps memory by alliteration (Scarlet Scorpion or Crimson Cutlass), or when there is some local knowledge, phrase, or legend fixing the less common alternative in the mind (Emerald Isle rather than Green Island, for example). Most of the names made some sort of sense, too. Ponies prance, so the Prancing Pony is a fine pub sign; weasels don’t, so a Prancing Weasel would be odd. Weasels are known to ‘waltz’ around their prey, however, so the Waltzing Weasel might work well… if the waltz exists in the campaign world (the dance was invented in the 18th century on Earth). Some things would be unlikely in pub names, such as undead monsters; and a sign like the Sunken Galleon would scarcely attract superstitious sailors. Taverns frequented by magicians in fantasy milieux may be named for visually recognisable spells and trappings: the Wizard’s Hat, the Starry Robe. Some will depend on your game system. For example: for Lejendary Adventures, Shooting Stars, Blue Bolts, Smoke Serpent, Dazzling Dagger, and Memory Tablet; for D&D, Flaming Hands, Lightning Bolt, Dancing Lights, Meteor Swarm, and Spellbook. More literate societies (Renaissance rather than medieval) will have captions as well as signs. Most signs should still match the caption, but almost any caption is possible, not necessarily one that conjures a picture. This tends to lead to joke names, often incorporating ‘inn’ as part of a play on words. Names Inn Jest: Bar Humbug, Bar Sinister, Beelzey Pub, Bitter End, Dark Knights, Dew Drop Inn, Firkin Ale, Gnu Inn, Gone Fish Inn, Gryffe Inn, Honest Lawyer, Inn for a Penny, Nobody Inn, Nogg Inn, Originals Inn, Pie & Ships, Silent Woman, Taffy Urn, Wander Inn Most of these puns are obvious, such as Gnu (New) Inn or the menu hint dropped by the (mag)Pie & Ships; some are visual, such as the starlit scene of two knights. Some depend on the interplay of caption and sign, such as the Honest Lawyer and Silent Woman, each of which shows a headless person. Bitter End serves its pints of bitter in a cul-de-sac. The Play’s the Thing Tavern signs can be made use of in play as well as being there for colour. Local landmarks and legends may be depicted, and amid the wild tales attached to the sign’s origin, one may give valuable clues to some past occurrence or hidden bounty. Maybe the distribution of certain emblems, colours, or numbers in a town’s inn signs gives a map to something of interest or value. Even taverns’ usual roles can be given a twist: was the party to meet an informant at the Hogshead or Hog’s Head? The purloined letter mentioned the Pike & Drake, but what combination of weapon, fish, dragon, and duck might that sign show? Signing Off At one stage in history, only inns and taverns were allowed signs because of clutter. Other businesses had similar names and signs related to trade, though, and you may want to allow this in your campaign. Gambling dens may flourish under the Sign of the Dice, the Lucky Seven, various cards and hands of cards, and so on. Houses of ill repute may make a direct or veiled reference to their diversions, depending on the society (in ancient times, inns had such extras on offer too). Implements rather than painted signs are possible - scissors for a tailor, tongs for an ironmonger. Dwelling places might also have signs, maybe indicating the owner’s name by way of a rebus: a swan and rising sun together indicating ‘Swanson’ and so on. Street numbers for houses are a recent innovation. The British model for pub signs used here offers the most variety and interest, and the signs have lasted. Sadly, taverns elsewhere tend to be more prosaic. In the wild west, the bars were limited to a few dull names: the Gold Nugget, the Last Chance Saloon. Most often in the U.S. these days an owner’s name is used (Harry’s Bar, Zappa’s Place, Mister Yee’s). In Japan, bars tend to be named after a local landmark. Pubs in Finland are named after the former uses of the building: the School, the Chemist, even the Public Toilet. In the future, though, there might be a new flourishing of variety. In a science fiction setting, inn signs might be something like the Asteroid Field, Rusty Robot, Shuttlecraft, Comet and Blaster - and near the dog-star, that well-known haunt of hard-bitten spacers, You Can’t be Sirius. Book five fantastic names Creating Fantastic Names Some of the appeal of imaginative literature comes from the exotic worlds and characters it conjures up. One way it distances itself from the everyday world is by using unfamiliar and evocative names. If the characters are Sally, Bill, and Fred, you are rooted in the mundane. If they are Hyssome, Drythe, and Rimsall, you are obviously beyond the fields we know, and the stage is set for wonders. The same applies to role-playing games using imaginative settings. Many fantastic names have been provided for you in this book, but in case you want to go further and create your own or adapt those here, it’s worthwhile looking at their genesis. So, how does one come up with exotic names, especially for entire worlds? And how does one ensure the names are right for the places and people depicted? The trick with fantastic names is finding the right balance between the familiar and the exotic, meeting expectations without getting into a rut. If names are too unfamiliar, it’s easy to confuse them; if they’re too familiar, they might not help to evoke the setting. In either case, the wrong names may detract from the effect you try to create. Unusual spelling can work in books at times, because you can see the words on the page: Sylver and Jhuleeyahn look and feel different from Silver and Julianne. In role-playing games, though, the names are spoken, so strange spelling is not enough. Rather, the names must sound different. A variety of methods are used to create fantastic names: adapting names from historical or mythological sources, twisting and recombining both common and rare words and interesting names, playing with word associations, and dredging up names from the subconscious. (All of these contributed over the years to the generic fantasy names lists!) The English language is a good source for creativity in this line: just combine or alter a few words imaginatively. C.S. Lewis created a race, marshwiggles, and an individual of the species, Puddleglum, this way. (Notice that the words he chose give precisely the correct tone for both; the marshwiggles are slightly comical, and Puddleglum is amusingly doleful.) English has the largest vocabulary of any language, at half a million words. Sadly, not much of it is used today, whether through the alleged demands of modern life or the dumbing down effect of inferior education practices, banal and denatured reading matter, and the brain-dead mass media. Perhaps the thin grey gruel of modern prose explains why many hunger for the generally richer fare of fantasy. In fact, the average English speaker today has only one-fifth the vocabulary of an average speaker in the time of Spenser or Shakespeare. This leaves many perfectly good words gathering dust - but we can, at least, adapt them for creating names. A good place to start is assembling simple, underused words like hex, pyx, dole, nab, wend, weft, nub, nib, wen, fen, tine, trull, tilth, treen, pent, mor, dor, oast, mulct, and so on (a Scrabble dictionary may help). They can be combined to give words that are unfamiliar enough to be exotic, are usually easy to pronounce, and may even have meaning. In fact, almost any archaic, obsolete, and literary words can be used both to name and to help characterise creatures, cultures, and so on. Take ‘scug’, old slang for a graceless schoolbrat: a perfect name, or part of one, for an irritating goblin-like creature. Parts of speech can be changed to create names, too: something that prowls (verb) can be called a ‘prowl’ (noun). Sometimes names so created are more or less random, which is fine if there are few names to create: all that is needed is to keep them pronounceable. In an attempt to depict societies and nations, though, names of particular peoples should show discernable patterns. Fantastic Fiction Role-playing games are largely based on fiction, and can take cues from it. There is a long tradition of authors inventing names. Some of the many now used in real life include Miranda, Vanessa, Fiona, and Wendy. Not all creations are as successful, even in fantasy fiction, where imagination and wonder should crowd thick upon the page. At worst, tin-eared hacks have churned out derivative dross involving barbarians with names like Barf and Krud. At best, though, the names produced are pure poetry: sound, rhythm, and hints at meaning combine to produce the perfect name for the character or place. Five excellent writers of the fantastic who are also, not wholly by chance, consistently deft at coining and using names are: Lord Dunsany, Fritz Leiber, Clark Ashton Smith, J.R.R. Tolkein, and Jack Vance. (Two other writers, Edgar Rice Burroughs and Lin Carter, also show a fine knack for devising apt names, although their writing might not be as stellar.) Dunsany, Leiber, Smith, and Vance write works that range from lyrical to ironic, and the names suit the mood. Many of their names are inspired by Arabic, Greek, Hebrew, Norse, and Celtic sources; Vance draws on English, French, and Italian as well. Each writer adds a great deal of imagination and poetry to these base materials to invent a large number of very apt names: as the least example, Vance calls a fairy damsel Twisk, which suits her flighty character perfectly. Tolkien filled his created world with different types of names, and shows a poet’s care in their choice. Sometimes the name comes from an uncommon word: Bilbo means a sword of notable temper. The names for dwarves and some other characters are taken or derived from the dwarves of Nordic myth. Elves (Teutonic) or alfar (Nordic) were described in myth as creatures more well-proportioned than man, but are not named in the original tales where they appear, so their names had to be made up. Tolkien went to the extent of making up languages as well. He used various old languages as a foundation for his own, and the names within them; for instance, basing the two Elvish dialects on Finnish and Welsh. The sounds used suggest the nature of the people depicted. Orcish is coarse and vicious. Dwarvish sounds guttural; stone-strong and down to earth. Elvish sounds musical, beautiful, noble. The older English of the Rohirrim makes them seem more in touch with nature, the more Latinate English (and Elvish) sounds of Gondor makes its citizens seem more refined. It’s hard to go past Tolkien as an exemplar, but of course your dwarves, elves, and so on don’t have to be like those in his fiction. Poul Anderson, for example, created quite different elves in his fantasies. Some traits, such as elegance, remain universal in all depictions. (This is part of meeting expectations: if you make your ‘elves’ into coarse, brutal cannibals, then they aren’t really elves any more, they’re mislabelled orcs.) Obviously, an author should spend time and effort to get the right names for his races and characters. Making up names that are lyrical, heroic, or redolent with menace is part of his job. While he can take some time to get things right, though, a system is needed for wholesale production of names in strange settings. Languages? In most fantasy worlds, it is desirable to have groups of names that sound similar and distinct from other groups and that suit the races or species that use them. You could go to the extent of inventing new languages for the human cultures and fantasy races of your world, as Tolkien did. It is one way of getting a set of consistent sounds, but creating individual languages for the human races and the many name-using types of sentient beings in a typical campaign, would keep a dedicated linguophile busy for years. Creative energies can be better spent. We can use some aspects of language to create distinct name groups, without actually having to create a language. As far as grammar goes, the only thing we need from it for personal names is to distinguish between the sexes, and the best way to do this is by their endings. For instance, you may decide that in the imaginary Caraesian culture, men’s names always end in -ej, -ef, or -ou and women’s names end in -aj, -af, or -ai. Grammar might also affect the order of place-name elements, whether you say ‘Black Land’ or ‘Land, Black’. Each language uses only a subset of the vast variety of noises, or phonemes, that humans can make when speaking. English has about 40 unique phonemes, German 44, and Hawai’ian 18; one African language has over 100. The characteristic set of these phonemes and the frequency, order, and combinations in which they are used are what makes a language sound the way it does. Phonemes are sound units like letters, and awkward to manipulate, but if we work with syllables, we get something that is easier to handle, and suitable for use in tables such as those in this section of the book. All that remains is to choose the right sounds. The Curse of the Apostrophe Without going into it at length, there are some things to avoid when creating fantastic names. One that stops most people is the dreaded ‘unpronounceable’. Some writers, presumably in an attempt to create a truly alien flavour, have produced names such as T’rxzssrxy-rzxlt’ss’ry. This sort of thing is pretty much pointless in a game where you have to speak the name out loud. Even if you could pronounce it, it’s unfamiliar enough to confuse players and overtax the gamemaster. Some names, such as those of demons, should be difficult to pronounce, not to mention utterly unpleasant and dangerous; but even stagger.ingly glottis-wrenching tongue-twisting polysyllabic sesquipedalian gargantuosities should, if it is possible to pronounce them with human vocal cords at all, be spelled with a few vowels. Misused apostrophes are a small but deadly part of unpro.nounceable names. They can be useful to show breaks between vowels, or sometimes glottal stops. Most often in fantastic fiction, though, they mean an unstressed neutral syllable, somewhere between /uh/ and /ih/. So T’plok would be pronounced tih-Plokk. One in a made-up name might be considered debatable; more than one is unforgiveable. In the real world, most clumsy, awkward, or unfamiliar names are simplified in short order. The name of the pirate flag, Jolly Roger, is supposedly such a corruption of the French jolie rouge, from the ‘pretty red’ colour of the original piratical ensign before the skull and crossbones became common. And if jolie rouge is hard to pronounce, forget T’rxzssrxy-rzxlt’ss’ry - whatever it is will be called Trixie at best. Tying it Together No book or game could possibly deal with the huge number of cultures and languages on Earth in depth, so usually only a few are featured in any work. All that matters for game purposes is that distinctive groups have names that can be told apart, and hint at their nature. Even in fantastic settings, humans tend to be the most diverse of races, and others are more homogenous. Other species tend to substitute for more exotic human cultures. Fantasy and science fiction races necessarily extrapolate from humanity (after all, there are none in the real world to use as models). They often accentuate one or more of its aspects: nobility, grace, refinement, cruelty, arrogance, crudity, and so on. We expect fantastic names (and, by implication, languages) to reflect this, perhaps more clearly than for human names. A name for a fairy should be diaphanous and delicate, light as thistledown, all gauze and gossamer. For an ogre or giant it should be a weighty bludgeon, iron-ribbed and brutal. For a dragon, it should be massive and magnificent, containing in its coils arrogant power, scaled splendour, brooding fire. That’s easier said than done! It would be nice to have a machine where one could add quantities of such qualities in proportion, crank a handle, and turn out the perfect name for whatever being was described. Sadly, none exists. We can, however, make a good start with what we know already from myth, fiction, and reality, using familiarity and phonaesthesia to create the effect we want. Invented names are sound-patterns, and suggesting meaning through sound is part of what makes a name just right for a dragon, dwarf, or damsel. For instance, orcs and ogres and their kin are typically coarse, crude, and nasty. We might expect their language and names to be guttural and unpleasant. For the fair folk, on the other hand, we might use clear, fluid, and clean sounds to produce pleasant names. We can use heavy-sounding phonemes for larger beings, lighter sounds for smaller ones, and so on, keeping in mind the overall effect. Thus the semi-random tables following involve syllables with certain sounds, grouped according to euphony and traditional associations. Sentient beings less like humans (both in science fiction and fantasy) often resemble Earth species with which we are familiar, and it is usual to give them languages and names based on the noises such species make: snakes and lizards hiss, owls hoot, frogs croak. This is not mere cliché: the vocal apparatus of homologous species should probably make similar sounds. Names for silent things such as octopi and plants can be decided based upon what we want to convey by the sounds together with a bit of imagination. (Now, let’s see, what’s suitable for a leafy bush... Russel?) Note that hybrid creatures can combine the forms of man, animal, plant, insect, or whatever in various ways. Creatures with human heads (such as a centaur or naga) might use human or human-like languages and names. Speaking animals, creatures with animal heads on human bodies (such as minotaurs), or those who blend bipedal shape with animal attributes (such as lizard-men or cat-people) would be more likely to use names with the species-peculiar sounds suggested. A number of possible races, species, and archetypes are suggested hereafter. Names from folklore and fiction are given for some. Tables and lists for systematic generation of fantastic names are provided for each: these combine appropriate sounds simply. If you want to change them, do so; if something’s not to your taste, alter it. Blank tables are provided for your own variations. Generic Fantasy These generic fantasy lists have over 9000 invented names ready to use; millions if you create compound names like Darth.Bator,Thulsa Vader, Ulan Doom, or Shangri-la. They are meant to provide a trove of instantly usable names for most fantasy campaigns. The names are vocables, sounds with no intrinsic meaning - any rude utterances in foreign tongues are accidental! They tend towards heroic and exotic sounds, with some whimsy. Possibly not all will appeal to everyone, but they should be speakable, and most can be used for both people and places. The names are sorted by approximate length, into one-syllable, two-syllable, three-syllable, and multi-syllable lists (of about 1100, 4500, 2900, and 600 names). Personal names. The lists can be used as is for fantasy human names, with bynames and so on added as required. Use them for family names as well, if you wish. For science fiction settings, list names could be mixed with standard personal or family names, to give Derokain Black, Hazel Sindiris, and the like. Place names. Many names can be used as is for places, especially longer ones. Otherwise, you can simply use them with descriptive terms, adding ‘-an’ or ‘-ian’ if you want to use them adjectivally. For instance, you could have the Naall River or the Craters of Naall or Naallian Hills. Stand-alone names could have a topographical element added to indicate what they refer to, for instance, in the villages of Naalham, Naalton, or Naalwick. Pronunciation The names were not written down using a precise phonetic system, but should be easy enough to pronounce. The approximate number of syllables should give a hint, but the usual uncertainties of English are left largely intact. Some intentional things: an ‘e’ ending a word is silent if not accented. An accent shows that adjacent vowels are voiced distinctly, where ambiguity is possible (so Zoë rhymes with Joey, not Joe). A double vowel indicates the syllable is drawn out. An h may indicate rough breathing or change a vowel’s value like an accent (so Ruk rhymes with luck, but Rukh with book, or rûk). Choosing a Name If you have something specific in mind - a short name for a warrior, a long name for a waterway, a compound name for a wizard - just choose from the appropriate lists. If you want a name at random, choose from the whole lot, or roll a d20 on the Generic Fantasy Names table below, then choose a name from the indicated syllable list or lists. Table 5-1: Generic Fantasy Names D20  Syllables  Examples  01-02  One  Birme,Targ  03-11  Two  Marath, Wyxef  12-16  Three  Esmeril, Faldian  17  Multi  Narzelduin, Rhazazarak  18  One + Two  Jal Gadoc, Voon Coäx  19  Two + One  Zirin Thorm, Jandix Slaunce  20  Any Compound  Hax Alarion, Tsai-Jal,  Polorrum Drinn  Feel free, of course, to adjust the table and results to suit your campaign. Some names may seem obviously place or person, male or female, heroic or ironic, rustic or urbane. If the name seems ill-suited to its intended use, choose a nearby name (something on the line may fit), or change it (add or remove a feminine ending, say). Names that seem too whimsical by themselves may nonetheless work well in compounds. Relegate any you dislike to hirelings, hicks, and hounds. It helps to get a handful of names at once for groups of people or places, so you can assign them most appropriately. Ensure there is variety enough to tell those in a group apart easily (different lengths, starting letters, endings). One-syllable Names Aind, Ainn, Airk, Aitze, Ald, Ance, Anxe, Ard, Ashf, Aulg, Aun, Aure, Authe, Baelt, Bakh, Bal, Balt, Balthe, Barg, Barll, Bauce, Baysc, Beek, Beele, Berl, Bersch, Beyn, Bhozt, Birme, Birr, Bjanc, Blaen, Blize, Blouch, Blurk, Blynze, Bokk, Borl, Borse, Brahl, Brakk, Bralk, Brang, Brann, Branth, Brem, Bress, Breun, Briint, Brill, Brize, Brod, Broik, Brolt, Bront, Broozh, Brosck, Broud, Brud, Brule, Brun, Bulse, Bunth, Byar, Byst, Caer, Cail, Canth, Carn, Cayrl, Ceyt, Chaeng, Chail, Chaith, Chal, Chalm, Charg, Charn, Chave, Chayle, Chaze, Cheal, Cheev, Chel, Chern, Cherze, Chezl, Chilk, Chlenk, Choalg, Choje, Chor, Chorl, Chorsk, Chounce, Chraq, Chrarr, Chrem, Chrent, Chriyb, Chroad, Chud, Chuz, Claed, Clart, Clesh, Cloup, Clour, Clowr, Coll, Corb, Corje, Corm, Corme, Crade, Creeg, Croold, Croyn, Cthon, Cush, Daalx, Dahr, Daig, Dal, Darm, Darsh, Darze, Dashf, Dask, Datz, Daug, Dawl, Deelth, Deerch, Derd, Derle, Dest, Deuth, Dex, Dhaant, Dherl, Dhoul, Dhuul, Dhuur, Dinz, Dlak, Dlask, Dlir, Doag, Dolc, Dorse, Dralg, Dram, Dran, Drance, Drath, Drax, Draygg, Dreact, Dreed, Dreeg, Dreen, Dreev, Drelm, Drelth, Drerle, Drewm, Drilm, Drinn, Drism, Drissth, Drix, Droale, Drojj, Drom, Droxe, Droy, Drun, Drust, Druuth, Dryle, Drynn, Drythe, Dvarch, Dwesk, Dzairn, Dzij, Dzym, Eeb, Eenthe, Elb, Emp, Ence, Ench, Eng, Enz, Ept, Erd, Esk, Faig, Falthe, Fanch, Faoth, Fard, Faum, Faz, Feant, Feej, Felg, Fernsh, Fesk, Fess, Feth, Fimth, Fize, Flast, Flatch, Flayre, Flerd, Flersh, Flisp, Florn, Fompt, Fousk, Fraine, Frakk, Fralg, Frast, Fregg, Frem, Fresk, Fretch, Frex, Frike, Frile, Frism, Frold, Frone, Fronx, Frook, Frool, Froy, Frush, Fryx, Fulm, Fyahn, Fyast, Fyorb, Fzek, Fzron, Gair, Galthz, Gand, Gane, Gann, Gart, Gath, Gault, Gawle, Gax, Genze, Gerd, Gez, Gharl, Ghea, Ghenz, Ghorl, Ghorx, Gilft, Gilm, Gire, Glaar, Glain, Glarch, Glaux, Gleeth, Gleev, Gleft, Glekke, Glem, Glice, Glip, Glish, Glith, Gloard, Gloob, Gloorsh, Glosk, Glund, Glyre, Glyth, Gnarre, Golm, Gond, Gorm, Gosp, Goste, Graal, Grall, Greel, Greeld, Greelp, Grend, Grilf, Grimp, Groad, Grond, Groolsh, Gruon, Grux, Gthuu, Gurze, Gwisp, Gwith, Gwosk, Gyorr, Gyz, Haag, Haar, Haask, Hade, Hadj, Halk, Halm, Hane, Harb, Harch, Harg, Harx, Hauke, Haux, Hawlx, Hax, Heerf, Hersh, Hetz, Hezz, Hisk, Hize, Hjorr, Hlare, Hlor, Hoag, Hob, Horl, Horm, Hosh, Hraak, Hrailk, Hreen, Hrine, Hroon, Hrume, Hruse, Huxx, Hythe, Ingg, Jaarge, Jad, Jaerth, Jaig, Jairn, Jal, Jalth, Jance, Jand, Jant, Janx, Jard, Jark, Jarn, Jask, Jath, Jauce, Jaus, Jauth, Jaze, Jeel, Jekk, Jend, Jenx, Jerd, Jern, Jexx, Jhang, Jhaulk, Jhor, Jhure, Jinch, Jind, Jinz, Jirle, Joorm, Jorm, Jorn, Jrond, Jurze, Jusk, Juzz, Jyfe, Jyin, Kaerr, Kaid, Kal, Kamn, Kand, Kang, Kank, Karn, Karth, Karze, Kaune, Kedj, Keek, Keig, Kell, Kelph, Kerce, Kerm, Kerst, Kesp, Keth, Kez, Khaiz, Khal, Khand, Kharb, Kharsp, Khern, Khif, Khond, Khôr, Khorst, Khrev, Kinch, Kish, Kiv, Kjeld, Klaff, Klaz, Kleed, Kloob, Kloohn, Klyne, Kmool, Knaar, Knut, Kolff, Kolg, Konv, Koss, Koul, Krake, Krall, Kranj, Krax, Kreel, Krej, Kremp, Krey, Krile, Krinch, Kroff, Kroll, Krompf, Kuest, Kull, Kulm, Kuon, Kuum, Kvon, Kwask, Kwaz, Kyre, Lach, Laev, Lan, Lantz, Larnste, Lartz, Laur, Lawrg, Layje, Leet, Lenx, Leth, Liln, Liss, Lod, Loec, Lonn, Loord, Loosk, Lound, Luhr, Lumbb, Lurs, Lyrr, Lysk, Maarth, Maec, Maelv, Magh, Mald, Mant, Manth, Mantz, Marb, Mard, Mayxe, Meand, Meeth, Melg, Meln, Merrt, Merzh, Mesp, Mirsp, Mirx, Miskt, Mlö, Mointh, Mool, Moork, Moorthe, Mord, Morl, Moskt, Mox, Mulse, Murlk, Murste, Myrrhne, Naall, Naar, Naaz, Naer, Naik, Naine, Nairx, Nalm, Nanx, Naois, Naphk, Nar, Narct, Narrm, Naulk, Naxx, Naze, Nelq, Nem, Nemn, Nerrz, Ngal, Nime, Nirft, Nisp, Nithe, Noerth, Nolgh, Nool, Noom, Norb, Norle, Noth, Nraeve, Nulth, Nurb, Nuss, Nyalg, Nyalk, Nym, Nynx, Olth, Omm, Omn, Ooon, Ord, Orld, Ornce, Oth, Ounde, Ourne, Paaz, Palch, Parn, Parth, Parzt, Path, Pelk, Pell, Pesm, Phad, Phairn, Phant, Phlarn, Phong, Photz, Phral, Phul, Pirz, Pjanth, Plange, Plaz, Plegg, Plind, Plomb, Plorze, Plumf, Pluun, Pnidd, Poile, Pome, Pould, Praige, Presk, Prike, Prokk, Prook, Prya, Pryle, Prynne, Psarn, Ptenx, Pulge, Pume, Quaan, Quaar, Quagh, Quaild, Quaisth, Qual, Qualt, Quanst, Quanz, Quaoph, Quarl, Quast, Quech, Qued, Quelg, Quelm, Querk, Quigg, Quilg, Quol, Quonj, Quool, Quorze, Quune, Quynd, Raask, Rahm, Raine, Raisth, Ralce, Rald, Rast, Raunt, Raupt, Rax, Raxt, Rayche, Raz, Reelce, Reendt, Relth, Relz, Rez, Rhath, Rhaze, Rhiss, Rhom, Rhorn, Rhyll, Rifk, Rilm, Rilx, Rimsk, Rimth, Riss, Rith, Rix, Rodr, Rodst, Roen, Rogg, Rolm, Rolx, Roult, Rull, Rulm, Rult, Rumche, Runce, Ruor, Ruusque, Ruz, Ryke, Rynx, Ryond, Rythe, Saar, Saech, Saedd, Sairgh, San, Sange, Sarg, Sark, Sarl, Sarn, Sarpt, Skroine, Scroot, Scrylte, Scryme, Sculp, Scuss, Scyrth, Sdor, Seelt, Seif, Sen, Senthe, Sfite, Shad, Shar, Sharg, Sharm, Sharn, Sheb, Sheel, Shenn, Shenx, Sherth, Shilm, Shind, Shont, Shren, Shune, Shurm, Shuuth, Shyang, Skarn, Skart, Skeen, Skerr, Skorle, Skraf, Skrafe, Skrib, Skrift, Skroi, Skyre, Slaar, Slanc, Slark, Slarm, Slask, Slaunce, Slaur, Sleer, Slemt, Slike, Slith, Sloif, Slorg, Slorn, Sluff, Slynd, Smeke, Smete, Smink, Smold, Snabe, Snard, Snarr, Sneath, Snurch, Soick, Solm, Sool, Soorve, Sorl, Sorm, Sorn, Sosz, Sounx, Sparll, Splynd, Sprake, Squalj, Sran, Srend, Sroon, Stalb, Starl, Stelk, Strangg, Strix, Strom, Strowl, Stuhr, Styche, Styre, Suntz, Suule, Suusht, Svinse, Swaerk, Swyst, Syle, Syoll, Taede, Tael, Tak, Tal, Tanj, Targ, Targh, Tark, Tarl, Tath, Taus, Tavv, Taze, Tchel, Tcherm, Tchoum, Tebs, Teelk, Teern, Teirn, Telg, Telk, Terb, Terre, Tez, Thaad, Thaarn, Thad, Thaed, Tham, Thand, Thang, Thapp, Thard, Thark, Thask, Thaugh, Thaum, Thaurn, Thawn, Thax, Theed, Thesk, Thevv, Theyz, Thirrf, Tholk, Thorm, Thosk, Thoure, Thrak, Thralf, Thrand, Thrasp, Thrawl, Thrawn, Thrax, Thrilce, Thrizz, Throck, Thromb, Throsp, Thull, Thuu, Tlön, Toal, Tog, Tol, Tolg, Tolm, Tooz, Torb, Torje, Torm, Torr,Torsk, Torth, Trahl, Treel, Treesk, Trell, Trem, Treys, Trild, Trilse, Trinx, Trojj, Tronf, Trost, Troyne, Trulm, Tsai, Tsang, Tselm, Tsleg, Tspoy, Tsrome, Tthann, Tull, Tvash, Twez, Twillx, Tyae, Tyfe, Tyog, Tzank, Tzoy, Ulm, Urst, Vaar, Vaersl, Vaist, Valg, Valtch, Vand, Vansh, Var, Vard, Varl, Vask, Vass, Vath, Vaulx, Vaus, Vaxx, Vayze, Veb, Veed, Veeth, Vegg, Vek, Velb, Venk, Venth, Verle, Vesp, Veth, Vilt, Vipt, Virl, Virx, Visk, Viss, Vist, Vith, Vlack, Vlax, Vleft, Vloongh, Vohm, Volg, Vool, Voon, Voor, Vor,Vorg, Vorl, Vorque, Vorse, Vort, Vrahk, Vrain, Vramp, Vreng, Vrilx, Vrosk, Vroyce, Vuul, Wertz, Wheld, Whimk, Whirx, Whoord, Wix, Woise, Wome, Woorn, Worrb, Wrahz, Wraime, Wrax, Wrhye, Wrold, Wrost, Wurlp, Wyast, Wye, Wynv,Wyrn, Xaayr, Xaen, Xaif, Xain, Xalm, Xan, Xarle, Xas, Xau, Xean, Xelb, Xenve, Xerth, Xill, Xin, Xinsce, Xis, Xive, Xix, Xord, Xoth, Xush, Xyle, Xysc, Yad, Yagre, Yaim, Yand, Yarl, Yauce, Yeb, Yeerk, Yend, Yenj, Yest, Yhalm, Yhe, Yhem, Yifth, Yilb, Yivv,Yoort, Yoth, Yrr,Yund, Yush, Yuun, Zaar, Zahn, Zaidh, Zaift, Zaile, Zaive, Zand, Zanq, Zao, Zaon, Zaoth, Zar, Zash, Zeft, Zeige, Zek, Zell, Zelm, Zelth, Zend, Zha, Zhash, Zhayce, Zherl, Zhirth, Zhool, Zhorm, Zhuul, Zil, Zilge, Zinn, Zixt, Zlante, Zlaque, Zlar, Zold, Zook, Zool, Zoor, Zor, Zorl, Zorn, Zoth, Zoul, Zreethe, Zull, Zusque, Zwerl, Zynx, Zyx Two-syllable Names Aahdret, Aarlen, Aasren, Aastrasl, Aban, Abbith, Ablif, Aboas, Abrance, Abrax, Abryn, Abyok, Acear,Acfyst, Achekk, Achelse, Achlarg, Achren, Achriss, Ackvold, Acram, Acu, Adaon, Addanc, Adeil, Adire, Adlay,Adlen, Adlon, Admel, Adoin, Adon, Adrek, Adreln, Adrich, Adrilc, Adurthe, Aduush, Aealim, Aeddan, Aedha, Aedir, Aedlynx, Aeiran, Aelis, Aelma, Aemon, Aenet, Aenthu, Aeprox, Aeren, Aerind, Aerkoon, Aerkour,Aerlithe, Aeron, Aeryle, Aethlyr,Aethon, Afenk, Affraig, Afraaj, Agburz, Ageen, Aghil, Aghill, Aglin, Agroth, Agwyn, Agyorl, Ahmré, Aia, Aiaia, Aibmab, Aidajn, Aiden, Aidon, Aigol, Ailcaer, Ainké, Ainzu, Airmid, Aislinn, Aislithe, Aiza, Aizan, Ajaak, Ajnaic, Akaal, Akar,Akem, Akhtar, Akif, Akii, Akir, Aklo,Akon, Akoorb, Akrain, Akshooth, Akthrain, Akvar, Alao, Alarre, Albaize, Albin, Albrif, Aldende, Aldlor, Aldlum, Aldon, Aldor,Aldreb, Aldred, Aldren, Aldryn, Aldtas, Alenthe, Alfan, Algus, Alif, Aling, Aljic, Aljric, Allaire, Allar, Almaer,Almeir, Almen, Alodd, Alsob, Altin, Altur,Alver, Alya, Amact, Amair, Ambard, Ambeln, Ambril, Ameste, Amfik, Amkir,Ammdar, Ammek, Amoyl, Amphoth, Amrath, Amren, Amyrg, Amzar, Anach, Anar, Anaz, Ancharl, Anclaar, Anctash, Andell, Andjez, Andon, Andore, Andorh, Andrad, Andreth, Androlg, Andrys, Andval, Anghra, Anglame, Angleem, Anglock, Anglor,Angmor, Angtai, Anhlaw, Anigg, Anin, Anjak, Anjos, Anken, Ansher,Ansoj, Anson, Antar, Antarn, Anthor, Antrim, Antriq, Antrisp, Anvar,Anvyen, Anxrin, Anzire, Aopharz, Aophim, Aquill, Ara, Araar, Aradh, Arak, Aran, Araste, Araz,Arbal, Archam, Archech, Archite, Arcus, Ardann, Ardesh, Ardlen, Ardoth, Ardune, Ardwar, Ardwil, Ardwile, Areest, Arell, Argin, Argorm, Argrath, Arhnaal, Aribe, Arick, Arjhag, Arkal, Arkharn, Arklow,Arkrog, Arlan,Arlbeth, Arldon, Arlya, Armast, Armorn, Armyze, Arna, Arnhor,Arnid, Arnlor, Arnrost, Aroinz, Arrah, Arrhod, Arshel, Artheen, Arthex, Artor,Artus, Arun, Arvel, Arvilk, Arvol, Arvox, Arweld, Aryem, Aryft, Aryon, Aryph, Aryus, Arzang, Arzi, Asberl, Ascelle, Aschar, Aschka, Asco, Äsë, Asgar, Asgorn, Ashan, Ashane, Ashbarl, Ashed, Ashild, Ashlann, Ashnyn, Ashord, Ashtah, Ashur, Askar, Aspand, Asrai, Astei, Astem, Astha, Astran, Astrin, Atang, Atar, Atdeel, Ateng, Athald, Athar, Athcroj, Athlas, Athlos, Athmar, Athquom, Atlampt, Atlank, Atmaas, Atmeh, Atmog, Atox, Atraaf, Atrend, Atsal, Attor, Atyar, Atyre, Auchstyr,Auchur, Aucir,Audric, Aundan, Aunxar,Aurawn, Aureth, Auxid, Avane, Avarr, Averq, Avoon, Avorn, Awndale, Axaane, Axos, Aya, Aydras, Ayen, Ayin, Ayir, Ayla, Aylmer, Ayrish, Ayshun, Ayshung, Azal, Azash, Azeal, Azen, Azgoth, Azhrarn, Azlon, Azlyn, Azmael, Azorn, Azoth, Azra, Azraq, Azrean, Azreck, Azter,Azzay, Babdar, Baccruz, Baelil, Bahar, Baiar, Baiern, Baikaen, Baiposk, Bakan, Bakra, Balain, Balaz, Baldhur, Baldrim, Balgurr, Balkar, Balok, Balour, Banek, Banffoge, Bannheld, Bannor, Baraell, Bardel, Barduy, Baren, Barim, Barind, Barldsy, Barlom, Barlon, Barltan, Barnar, Barood, Baros, Barrenc, Barrin, Bartain, Basfric, Basim, Basmol, Bassinth, Bassto, Bastarre, Batrosque, Bayven, Bayzell, Bazan, Bazit, Beclaan, Bedane, Bedese, Beejlam, Begnus, Belan, Belaz, Belcoir, Beleth, Belgaun, Belic, Beljan, Bellin, Bellom, Belmul, Belnarth, Belor, Belorn, Belot, Belrain, Belstos, Belthan, Belthis, Belwilg, Bengol, Bëol, Beolj, Beras, Berclad, Bercol, Berik, Berild, Berim, Berith, Berlyne, Berrec, Bersem, Bershar, Bertrenk, Berzik, Bethmel, Beyash, Beyus, Bezgrael, Bezpar, Bhoorva, Biferb, Biilar, Bildesh, Billosh, Bilmar, Bindle, Biraad, Birain, Bireln, Birta, Bisel, Bjanni, Blauthike, Bleran, Bleskran, Blonjerg, Blorvind, Blunyc, Bodvar, Boëd, Boggrah, Bolaoz, Bolthorn, Borale, Boren, Borgald, Borin, Borlaith, Borlas, Borlid, Borlo, Borngah, Borzer, Boshan, Bothar, Botro, Bouphar, Bowjen, Boyarl, Braagen, Bracca, Braeklarn, Bragen, Brahan, Brakkon, Brala, Brali, Brallu, Bralma, Brandar, Brandec, Brangwej, Branthu, Brantys, Branvaol, Branzan, Brascand, Brasslin, Braxen, Braxtor, Brealij, Bredhal, Breedast, Bregem, Brehen, Breitsoj, Brelkrov, Brenen, Brenlan, Brestej, Brethil, Bretta, Brevlyn, Brevta, Brielle, Brindax, Brindence, Brintu, Brinys, Brislyn, Brithael, Brithric, Brobal, Brohnin, Brona, Broosin, Broxus, Brufod, Brundelx, Bryapka, Brynit, Buckrald, Bulvet, Burcan, Burrgaut, Bwermolc, Byeloor, Bylys, Byrkast, Byzar, Cadairn, Caddax, Cadel, Cadfrel, Cadrach, Cadreth, Caecyn, Caedfer, Caelis, Caerron, Caillean, Caiphul, Cairon, Caldel, Calensch, Calkdaev, Calmic, Calnor, Calunn, Calyz, Calzan, Camain, Cambree, Camdlon, Camsar, Candla, Candrak, Canelb, Cangmor, Canthar, Cantrasc, Caopha, Caostri, Caranth, Carbrod, Cardelv, Carfheen, Carlasc, Carlinx, Carnax, Carnly, Carnool, Caroin, Carquel, Carthis, Caskeil, Castlon, Cathlaid, Caveesm, Cavorn, Cavosse, Cavris, Caynarv, Cayrin, Cazberr, Cazyach, Cedrim, Cedrisk, Ceilerse, Celbarb, Cemtruo, Cenyth, Ceraik, Cercyon, Cerdun, Cerlint, Cermor, Cernon, Cerra, Cessair, Cevir, Ceylinn, Chadan, Chadlor, Chadzik, Chaemor, Chagor, Chalar, Challem, Challeth, Chalvir, Chambarr, Changtsai, Chanoth, Chanti, Chaöl, Charatze, Charnyx, Charresh, Charyd, Chaska, Chaulet, Chavir, Chayim, Chazane, Chazgel, Cheldor, Chelim, Chelprey, Chelshrike, Chendil, Chenean, Chenoa, Cherla, Chessene, Chevonde, Chezil, Chial, Chian, Chigran, Chimu, Chimzil, Chirril, Chirthiz, Chitrind, Chlangi, Chlodig, Chlorild, Chordash, Chorrin, Chrezel, Chungaez, Chunjan, Chyvil, Cidran, Cilmar, Cinctraic, Ciraf, Cirkin, Cirnak, Cista, Civar, Ciwan, Clafaug, Clarinn, Cleedis, Clendlim, Clenvred, Cligra, Cloosag, Cloralt, Coäx, Cobord, Cobrynth, Coddry, Cogarn, Coimarn, Colgrim, Colyss, Comnlan, Conjerb, Conjin, Coram, Corbrod, Cordin, Corem, Coreme, Corill, Corince, Cormast, Corrysm, Corsolle, Couran, Coyzan, Cramog, Craxan, Craydarth, Craye, Creidah, Crennex, Crestarl, Crestry, Creydai, Crezel, Crilayth, Crixbine, Crochell, Crolas, Cromough, Croquarne, Cuddry, Cuhaid, Cullyn, Curik, Curin, Curlask, Cusheal, Cusheth, Cuttray, Cyanril, Cydace, Cylenn, Cynquil, Cyrand, Cyrib, Cyrvemth, Czarai, Dabthan, Dacil, Daeglev, Daelden, Dafor, Daghand, Dagharz, Dagir, Dahiil, Daikoon, Dailenn, Dakul, Dakvon, Dalain, Dalanc, Dalcraw, Dalga, Dalgirth, Dalith, Dalman, Dalraev, Dalsar, Dalvai, Dalvoc, Dalwyn, Damaal, Damar, Damesk, Damrir, Danchel, Dandar, Dandroan, Danfis, Dangrim, Dankin, Dantlee, Daotar, Daphrin, Daplurn, Dara, Darach, Darake, Daran, Darax, Darbeel, Darcer, Darga, Darglin, Darinth, Darjek, Darjii, Darlist, Darlith, Darmont, Darmore, Darnath, Darnein, Darnime, Daron, Darool, Darsid, Darsiiv, Darsin, Darvane, Darven, Darzed, Darzha, Dashgu, Dasig, Dastor, Dastryn, Daugas, Daulaz, Davar, Daveld, Davix, Davlit, Davras, Davrou, Davrune, Dawfoke, Daxon, Dayko, Daysase, Daytar, Deaclynd, Debfin, Dechru, Deenos, Delaur, Delcold, Deldrak, Deleea, Delente, Delgath, Delgaun, Delmar, Delna, Delrean, Delser, Demgris, Deneth, Dengar, Denlorn, Derdain, Derfel, Dergast, Derild, Derlin, Derlor, Deroh, Deron, Derroll, Dersarre, Derthark, Devolt, Devreed, Dhakos, Dhornen, Dhoumene, Dhranak, Dhyana, Dialn, Dibdrek, Dilfar, Dilgid, Dilquay, Dilvak, Dinoor, Diorne, Diran, Dirim, Dirkalt, Dirmalk, Dirrach, Dirrahk, Dirvus, Distar, Disten, Distran, Ditrenth, Divos, Djarmon, Djehla, Djelha, Djira, Djola, Dolljan, Dolthar, Dolvith, Domede, Domen, Domin, Domnux, Domon, Domvit, Domwren, Donet, Donlaze, Doran, Dorath, Dorgand, Dorgath, Dorhar, Dorin, Dornath, Dornbain, Dorok, Dorsan, Dorspaich, Dortoom, Dorvai, Dostaan, Doussa, Dowflox, Dozrig, Dozthuk, Drabsnar, Dradoi, Dradus, Draegra, Drakhor, Drakhri, Drakirn, Drakkan, Dralar, Dramah, Dramfer, Draogat, Drassonne, Drauphor, Draven, Draxok, Drayley, Drayven, Drazvec, Drebyss, Dreezhan, Drefest, Dreggol, Dreintor, Drellefe, Drenfust, Drengar, Drethlec, Drevark, Dreynel, Drezael, Drezaem, Drilant, Drimmis, Drinda, Dringle, Drion, Drissa, Dristirk, Drocolg, Drogan, Drohulse, Droilfin, Drokoag, Dronasp, Druchor, Drunal, Drusilf, Dryduos, Duarn, Duergan, Dulith, Dulkarn, Dulkast, Dunry, Durnik, Durzin, Duskim, Duubown, Dvorast, Dwendlim, Dwyvach, Dygard, Dylenx, Dymnash, Dynqua, Dynroth, Dyoni, Dyshim, Dyskrahn, Dytheus, Dyvim, Dyzant, Dzoraug, Easval, Ebane, Ebur, Echael, Echross, Eclane, Edcyl, Eddar, Eddax, Eddor, Edeth, Edhil, Edrun, Eduu, Eehatt, Eelek, Eelgren, Eerban, Eglarth, Egron, Ehilm, Ehlmat, Ehlreth, Eidon, Eidrinn, Eilif, Einar, Eirecht, Eithné, Ejence, Ekvarl, Elaen, Eland, Elath, Eldin, Eldix, Eldrab, Eldron, Eldru, Elek, Elem, Elfreth, Elgroth, Elkin, Elkleth, Ellern, Ellrass, Elmral, Elnume, Elod, Elran, Elriph, Elu, Elvrit, Elyx, Elzast, Emal, Emberle, Emdel, Emerl, Emgar, Emton, Enban, Encarth, Endrade, Endril, Enferth, Englin, Enkim, Ennek, Enris, Enrost, Enskel, Ensorn, Envess, Enzhai, Ephelt, Ephraj, Ephti, Ephyre, Eppent, Eppin, Erbmaj, Erdlan, Ergar,Ergoth, Ergron, Erhil, Erijn, Ermon, Ermor, Eron, Errain, Errone, Erson, Erwat, Erxab, Escande, Esceft, Esdrix, Esghar, Eshrik, Eshuur, Eskarn, Eslyn, Esris, Essa, Estrag, Estorl, Estrif, Esyfe, Ethrene, Euross, Evelj, Evinth, Evith, Evorn, Evska, Ewlon, Eyphra, Eythor, Ezail, Ezmi, Ezri, Fabolde, Fadar, Faendyre, Faesten, Faffle, Fafnalg, Faiorg, Falbin, Falcarn, Falgar, Falhehn, Fali, Falldrijn, Falsfeen, Falslen, Falume, Fanchel, Faran, Fardoth, Fardron, Farglid, Farhaude, Farleit, Farli, Farmolj, Farnek, Farngold, Farngor, Faroon, Farosh, Farrain, Farscall, Farsun, Farunst, Farzdoy, Fasthes, Fautell, Favuld, Favvaz, Fayel, Faygrenn, Faylaol, Faylynn, Fayol, Fazhal, Fazzur, Feeming, Feikry, Feirrex, Felinx, Felnar, Felor, Felstar, Felthund, Felvrand, Femigg, Fendahl, Fendrabe, Fenew, Fenic, Fenist, Fenleith, Fennus, Fenrald, Fenzil, Feorth, Ferman, Fermern, Fernath, Ferndel, Fernhol, Fernool, Fernosk, Ferram, Ferthel, Fervigg, Ferwend, Fesru, Fethlan, Feyan, Feyern, Fhorat, Fiantz, Fictyr, Figgin, Fiiya, Filtarg, Fingril, Finstar, Firca, Firga, Firin, Firon, Fiskroll, Fissworx, Flauleck, Flayna, Flestrin, Fletchen, Flikir, Flingrel, Flitan, Flixis, Foarad, Fodusk, Fogrin, Fohdon, Folstin, Fomkrin, Fontand, Foozan, Foragh, Forang, Foraujh, Forbulse, Foren, Forjisk, Formki, Fornoar, Foros, Forroosk, Forstine, Fortrelce, Forvael, Fozgiel, Frama, Franaard, Frannon, Frashtol, Frayja, Freasand, Fremmoun, Frillox, Friston, Frixeen, Frolin, Frondir, Fronost, Fronubb, Froscele, Frowal, Fruwasp, Ftoomi, Fulshin, Fulume, Fumpsil, Furtloft, Fusraul, Fylin, Fylssa, Fyojhkor, Fyönn, Fyza, Gaatel, Gadan, Gadoc, Gadra, Gadri, Gaenlea, Gaerlind, Gaerris, Gafael, Gaisherl, Gajiste, Gakaal, Galaart, Galach, Galaij, Galan, Galbaaz, Galchan, Galdoir, Galenx, Galind, Gallarg, Gallasp, Galmad, Galron, Galsdor, Galvrix, Gambrax, Gamitz, Gamkya, Ganaek, Gandril, Ganerth, Ganerve, Ganix, Gankor, Ganock, Gareck, Gareld, Garhaft, Garlan, Garol, Garon, Garos, Garpast, Garras, Garron, Garstrang, Garstrith, Garthag, Garthaun, Garven, Gathen, Gaunmar, Gaurbal, Gavrok, Gawend, Gaxtor, Gazwylg, Gearna, Geaxa, Gebrence, Gebrow, Gechart, Gechrak, Gedreth, Geerharg, Gehed, Gelan, Gelann, Geldol, Gelwik, Gemal, Gemelf, Genglar, Gerant, Gerin, Gerlant, Geroind, Gerreint, Gerren, Gesin, Gethen, Gezdrey, Ghaachev, Gharlane, Ghatar, Ghatha, Ghellence, Gherent, Gherlan, Ghirra, Ghomnir, Ghralence, Giaj, Gilboch, Gildor, Gildren, Gildrift, Gilflin, Gilir, Gilith, Gillyn, Gilmir, Gilmirst, Gilnar, Gilorn, Gilos, Gilva, Gilvar, Gimeld, Gimlej, Gimnel, Ginnen, Ginorsh, Girbeaux, Girin, Girzan, Gisgin, Githeld, Githew, Gitlan, Gitril, Gittos, Gizralle, Glaeloth, Glaernex, Glaraum, Glasdray, Glasquel, Glaury, Glayant, Gleada, Glebur, Glethlot, Gleyden, Glianth, Glidnimm, Glimanthe, Glirice, Glirrish, Gloisur, Glowan, Glufjyn, Glyngal, Glynzel, Glystraine, Gnasthor, Gnasthra, Gnivlah, Gnohesk, Gnorri, Gnospret, Gobar, Goklod, Golluer, Gomar, Gondrift, Gonjal, Gorad, Gorgost, Gorin, Gorinssk, Gorklu, Gorlis, Gormane, Gornik, Gorshay, Goryon, Gossparl, Gothel, Grachar, Graequil, Graghan, Grahault, Grainim, Granik, Granlon, Gravec, Greavdal, Greelar, Greethrin, Greforn, Grehuse, Grekith, Gremdahl, Grendax, Grennath, Grenslae, Grenvin, Greorle, Grevam, Greyfell, Griam, Grian, Griea, Griffix, Grifnid, Grindan, Grishulf, Gristis, Griswald, Grittu, Grivalx, Groäxx, Grombul, Grondar, Grortam, Grulbest, Grussex, Grydon, Gryemox, Grykar, Grypha, Guhan, Guhlnor, Gulla, Gulzund, Gunshird, Gunthal, Gunthar, Gunzhur, Gurdam, Gurjan, Gustay, Guthril, Gwacyn, Gwaihir, Gweddyn, Gweien, Gwenca, Gwendald, Gwepfrath, Gwesder, Gwildor, Gwithra, Gwomyr, Gwyran, Gwythinst, Gyán, Gylrath, Gyórb, Gyriss, Gyrlaen, Gyrlath, Gysankh, Gyseyt, Gystral, Haakrim, Haarstrin, Habmarl, Hadan, Hadar, Hadarg, Hado, Hadrim, Hadron, Haestan, Haefgan, Hafthir, Hagith, Hagra, Haidelth, Haijiss, Hainen, Hakhoim, Haklar, Haklor, Hakpard, Hala, Halbex, Halborn, Haldor, Haloth, Halperle, Halsan, Halût, Halvner, Hamba, Hamisk, Hanastre, Handra, Hanil, Hanierth, Hanith, Hantar, Hanthryn, Hapvar, Haral, Harave, Harchyl, Harfare, Hargan, Harnir, Harntil, Harnyrse, Harpann, Harran, Harrelm, Harstar, Hartaz, Harthan, Harthex, Harthran, Hartrond, Harvas, Harvel, Harzelle, Haspid, Hasrick, Hatchiss, Hatrasd, Havin, Havrel, Hawklin, Hawkram, Hawkran, Hawkreld, Hawleet, Hawljin, Hawtran, Haxas, Hazgarl, Hazkar, Hazrond, Hazvelc, Hazyrg, Hazzal, Hearroj, Hedin, Heenarg, Heengul, Hefpyre, Heinvroh, Helaz, Heldix, Helflitz, Helir, Helsdal, Helsur, Helvem, Hembra, Heram, Herisk, Herndre, Herrul, Herthose, Herym, Herzick, Hespek, Hesrel, Hessun, Hetcroft, Hethar, Hethra, Heurhyl, Hexil, Hezron, Heztor, Hibriss, Hienn, Hiffelk, Hifforn, Hifryn, Hildred, Hilix, Hiljin, Hilxin, Himlon, Himon, Himvli, Hinthan, Hinzay, Hireal, Hirrean, Hisrilf, Hisvran, Hizar, Hizron, Hjalmar, Hjeldin, Hjordrik, Hlyrmis, Hobtalg, Hoesgald, Holay, Holgar, Hollox, Holthan, Homli, Honturg, Hophand, Hoprig, Horan, Horglin, Horjak, Horlask, Hormatz, Horond, Horros, Horthoon, Horzak, Hotath, Hothcog, Hothcol, Hrasha, Hrasquer, Hrelar, Hresheuth, Hrinspire, Hroleur, Hrönir, Hrossa, Hrostar, Hsaptren, Humbuss, Humquor, Hunard, Hundar, Hurcad, Hurgal, Hurnod, Hurrisk, Hursin, Hurvin, Hurym, Hussuln, Huusim, Hyarante, Hyfryn, Hylar, Hyssome, Hyxley, Hyzail, Hyzen, Ibchol, Ibizt, Ibrolg, Ica, Ictar, Iduun, Ighai, Ignale, Ignire, Igraa, Igresk, Iijind, Iithkin, Ijeng, Ikalss, Ikeen, Ikkrish, Ikléy, Ildel, Ildelft, Ildin, Ildis, Ildnarr, Illa, Illyis, Ilnim, Ilruhn, Ilsuor, Ilthoss, Iltrilt, Iltrogh, Ilva, Ilvar, Ilxar, Ilyag, Imcanx, Imcolg, Imdiv, Imhas, Immak, Immoyr, Imnarl, Impag, Imrib, Imrift, Imtsith, Indlech, Indloth, Indlut, Indred, Ingarh, Ingelk, Ingen, Inghar, Ingolm, Ingrald, Inilv, Inis, Innluu, Inoke, Inslar, Iom, Ipshoom, Iraiz, Iras, Irauld, Iraunt, Irbry, Irchel, Irex, Irglas, Irlen, Irough, Irrash, Irrax, Irsai, Iruste, Irwick, Irxeath, Isbard, Ishan, Ishenx, Ishgan, Ishkar, Ishlak, Ishshan, Ishya, Islarch, Ismlok, Isorn, Isphek, Issa, Isstan, Itaaq, Ithend, Ithkaar, Ithome, Ivaade, Ivaire, Ivind, Ivool, Ivorn, Ivral, Ivran, Ivrax, Ivyd, Ivyod, Ixan, Ixaq, Ixor, Iygin, Izinth, Izleng, Izmisk, Iztra, Izvire, Jaadis, Jaagix, Jaalmez, Jaalon, Jaaluth, Jablant, Jacor, Jadir, Jado, Jadoorm, Jaedan, Jaelyss, Jagan, Jaggol, Jagrid, Jahir, Jahrgrim, Jaidu, Jaldeer, Jalmid, Jalom, Jama, Janam, Janan, Jandix, Janlay, Jano, Janrass, Jantust, Janu, Japloon, Jarad, Jarilz, Jariz, Jarlew, Jarlith, Jarngor, Jarra, Jartak, Jartusk, Jarveen, Jarvil, Jarvix, Jarzad, Jasir, Jasphar, Jaswen, Jaussig, Jautan, Javen, Javert, Javrik, Javtir, Jaxal, Jaxel, Jaylence, Jazanne, Jazraal, Jazrel, Jazrode, Jebhart, Jedra, Jeeldor, Jeelteg, Jehzehr, Jelthar, Jekkar, Jelantru, Jelday, Jeldor, Jelym, Jenbow, Jendarr, Jenkisk, Jerdys, Jerec, Jerel, Jerim, Jessel, Jetashe, Jethrik, Jeven, Jevist, Jezreel, Jezzar, Jezzra, Jhebdaeg, Jheexadh, Jheluth, Jherrox, Jhinarr, Jhinith, Jhorin, Jhourlann, Jhumpoust, Jhuvar, Jiaf, Jianc, Jiglak, Jihalg, Jilsa, Jiltarn, Jinnow, Jintlorn, Jinvik, Jiral, Jirnon, Jirnost, Jisa, Jithrast, Jixile, Joamorsk, Jobel, Jolrant, Jolsir, Jomec, Jomsut, Jondar, Jooskan, Jorad, Jorael, Joram, Joran, Jorel, Jornic, Joron, Jorvim, Joskyl, Jossak, Jostib, Jothal, Jovaine, Joysair, Jugeen, Juldrake, Julix, Julphra, Jultus, Jungro, Junnar, Jurin, Jurinn, Jurret, Jushdak, Justix, Juthcot, Juxpire, Jynyx, Jyvlex, Kaanpell, Kadjix, Kaerjeld, Kaggoth, Kagolm, Kahlan, Kahmahr, Kaiya, Kaklo, Kaldrak, Kalduk, Kalen, Kaliss, Kallak, Kalshai, Kalthen, Kalvek, Kalvran, Kalxin, Kaman, Kamlant, Kamon, Kander, Kangmir, Kangmor, Kanliin, Kanpo, Kantar, Kanthrix, Kantran, Kanven, Kaplull, Karchad, Karchen, Karchoy, Karcist, Karect, Kareeb, Kargon, Karjin, Karjus, Karkrust, Karnek, Karrax, Karrim, Karsa, Karstall, Kartol, Kasel, Kashir, Kashtuul, Kaspim, Kaspin, Kassar, Katan, Kathak, Kathar, Kathasp, Kathor, Kattelg, Kattra, Kaukris, Kavar, Kavarl, Kavath, Kavis, Kavor, Kayesp, Kayris, Kazarn, Keanca, Kedern, Keerlin, Keermeth, Kegryn, Keigtril, Kekkan, Kelar, Keldar, Kelgus, Kelkor, Kelmar, Kelner, Kelrac, Kelshiir, Kelver, Kelvon, Kelvyath, Kember, Kembriss, Kemoy, Kenshlin, Keraan, Kerdal, Kered, Kerrol, Kersenct, Keru, Kerzard, Kesdric, Kesnahr, Kespeth, Kesrack, Kesrick, Kethdjal, Kethrak, Kevlad, Kexy, Kezven, Khadar, Khadys, Khalart, Khaldan, Khalir, Kheverl, Khondru, Khordov, Khrissa, Khrithra, Khrosa, Khudrax, Khugweb, Kian, Kibbath, Kibha, Kidash, Kiirmu, Kijmin, Kikrasht, Kilas, Kilat, Kilgand, Kilisp, Kilmin, Kimda, Kinduhr, Kinorm, Kinzroft, Kipplob, Kirdon, Kirklen, Kiroum, Kirrax, Kirun, Kirskar, Kirzav, Kisarld, Kishin, Kismer, Kismerle, Kisprimn, Kiston, Kisvord, Kithert, Kithorsk, Kithund, Kithvor, Kivan, Kivooz, Kivoum, Kixime, Kizmay, Kjeldor, Kjindar, Koabon, Kofoum, Koino, Kolbect, Kolchash, Kolduk, Kolthya, Kolvram, Konvain, Korak, Korban, Kordale, Koren, Koreth, Korghil, Korix, Korlisk, Kornor, Kornud, Korok, Korrik, Korsal, Korseng, Kortael, Kortenj, Korthoon, Koruk, Korusk, Korvar, Kosjourn, Kothar, Koxir, Kozzir, Kraatin, Krallorn, Krana, Krangar, Kranorn, Krantheer, Krantor, Kredhal, Kregnux, Krelgar, Krentomzh, Kressen, Krexnahr, Krillon, Krissenq, Kroëld, Krotald, Krotar, Krotem, Kruchaen, Krynerl, Kugar, Kuldrah, Kulik, Kulleest, Kulxel, Kunatht, Kurdghar, Kurgnar, Kuruz, Kurvos, Kushish, Kydra, Kyladz, Kylcrum, Kylix, Kyllam, Kymen, Kyrake, Kyrmo, Kyrsha, Kyshi, Kysho, Laabrun, Laarskim, Laconde, Laël, Lagu, Lailaske, Laithare, Lakis, Lalan, Lalit, Lalun, Lampor, Lanaar, Landish, Landreth, Langbar, Lanreex, Lanscitt, Lanteld, Lantis, Lantos, Lanvilt, Lanycth, Lanzee, Lanzept, Larbrun, Laresm, Larid, Larind, Larkrosp, Lasquor, Lathir, Lathmarc, Latra, Laudrin, Laxar, Laydor, Layek, Lazelle, Ledmai, Leela, Leena, Leerank, Leesclar, Leggwyt, Leghast, Lehun, Leistorn, Lembarl, Lemgaar, Lemtarn, Lendra, Lensith, Lenzeel, Lephais, Lephern, Leqquan, Lerdeln, Lerlya, Lermest, Lerquint, Lestin, Letek, Lexan, Lextraa, Leystorne, Lherache, Lhusark, Liance, Libourne, Lidrill, Lilir, Lilnid, Liltar, Limdal, Limhoth, Limka, Limson, Lindarl, Lindlorn, Linlaith, Linmer, Linor, Linspar, Lintan, Lintra, Liosse, Liphrodd, Lirram, Lishran, Liskeel, Lissar, Lisstar, Lisstra, Liston, Lisvorn, Litheem, Lithrad, Littwyst, Lixelle, Lixeth, Lixter, Lizki, Lobror, Logas, Lohmi, Loiarl, Loomar, Loorin, Loorzig, Loraem, Loral, Lorbis, Lorrhin, Lorrin, Lorvra, Lothilv, Louwend, Lovoz, Loxzor, Luast, Lubist, Lucenne, Lufraut, Lumas, Lumfa, Lunzar, Lurand, Lurash, Lurin, Luscan, Lutril, Luzfel, Lyanec, Lyeüm, Lylix, Lyra, Lyrin, Lyron, Maaga, Macra, Macrad, Maefon, Maegwin, Maerraent, Magalph, Maghan, Maglone, Magmarl, Magnyck, Mahhri, Mahrik, Maidah, Maidak, Mairish, Maisa, Maisan, Majan, Makamb, Makisp, Malak, Malasc, Malber, Malboe, Malda, Maldock, Malfar, Malgrah, Malheme, Malinsp, Malkorf, Malnurb, Malthen, Maltheus, Malthgri, Malthor, Malvisp, Malwer, Malzhé, Mandrask, Manggrim, Mankril, Manthi, Manton, Maöl, Mapyn, Marack, Maraide, Marasp, Marath, Marax, Marclaw, Marcoorg, Mardhrene, Mardix, Mardur, Mareft, Marhalk, Marhart, Marjaan, Markryn, Marlath, Marlock, Marnec, Maroosh, Marost, Marrek, Marrhal, Marrhan, Marril, Marslin, Marslai, Martheel, Marul, Marvold, Marwhool, Mascrox, Maskrulp, Masplern, Masply, Masquoor, Masryn, Massac, Mastram, Mastrith, Mastruse, Mathgi, Mathlin, Mattraw, Matzin, Maularn, Maundrib, Maurdax, Maustere, Mavasce, Mavic, Mavkert, Mavour, Maxil, Mayern, Maylern, Maylin, Mayrime, Mazzyott, Medarm, Meder, Medist, Meeratz, Meffroa, Mefron, Meglos, Megwen, Mejea, Mekosp, Melaunce, Meldresc, Meleas, Melib, Melisk, Meljarn, Melkur, Melleg, Mellore, Melnayl, Melnyth, Melshiv, Melslem, Melviig, Mendra, Mengisp, Menksoor, Menna, Mephyr, Merdim, Merewn, Merkal, Merkan, Merley, Mermold, Mermoth, Merngar, Merophe, Merresh, Merrest, Merrost, Merryn, Mershun, Mersic, Mersna, Merssan, Merthyr, Merweld, Mesrah, Mesrawn, Mestorl, Mestrin, Methnos, Metrosq, Mevid, Mezard, Mhoran, Mhordaal, Mhovair, Mhurdaal, Mhyrrail, Mianth, Mibris, Micrum, Mida, Midor, Mifrax, Migglin, Mijar, Mijhyk, Mikird, Mileern, Milzrik, Mimur, Minom, Minvra, Minyal, Miraad, Mirach, Mircheld, Mirdain, Mirdij, Mirdole, Mireth, Mirglish, Mirhaz, Mirikke, Mirja, Mirjanth, Mirjenx, Mirkaise, Mirkin, Mirla, Mirrash, Mirrin, Mirrym, Mirtrax, Miryash, Mishaar, Mishim, Miskin, Miskul, Misrach, Miszlar, Mithbrin, Mithlerb, Mitrel, Mivarch, Mivrid, Miwarl, Mixtry, Mizarl, Mizma, Mizrab, Mlenjas, Mlocber, Mlodach, Moda, Mogorn, Moirulse, Molez, Mollith, Molnyx, Molrin, Molvigg, Molvind, Mommur, Monmar, Moondar, Mooneld, Moorith, Moorlow, Moormish, Moran, Morax, Morcal, Morchiss, Mordak, Mordlaw, Mordoc, Mordyle, Moreth, Morgath, Morgleeg, Morglin, Morgmar, Morgrim, Morhain, Morix, Morktar, Morla, Morlig, Morlosc, Mornith, Morrhan, Morsklon, Morssen, Mortan, Morthyld, Morvaen, Moryak, Moshaol, Mosyerl, Moyank, Mozoorb, Mrossard, Mubfusc, Mubur, Mudanc, Mudaz, Muhlenk, Muilt, Mungin, Munin, Murgaist, Murhsan, Mustile, Muuthas, Mygon, Myndax, Myrii, Myrnar, Myronce, Myrrim, Myrvarth, Myrya, Mysind, Mysmak, Naadem, Naadra, Naafa, Naalvad, Naasjerth, Nabdoor, Nabol, Nadar, Nadhil, Nadin, Nagai, Naghir, Nagist, Nagvar, Nahar, Nahoul, Naia, Naidel, Naidis, Naidule, Naidusk, Naion, Naisnim, Naithool, Nakrea, Nalbis, Naldecc, Nalkleth, Nalray, Namail, Namat, Namoin, Namvert, Nandrulg, Namphruk, Nantarth, Naök, Napolx, Naras, Nardalg, Naren, Narev, Nargath, Narjath, Narkrisst, Naron, Narqui, Narsok, Narthold, Nartolth, Narvi, Narvik, Nasank, Nasir, Natchai, Natchren, Natein, Nathlim, Nathor, Nathraq, Nautcheb, Navai, Navairnz, Navar, Navesm, Nazaarl, Ndola, Nebcherl, Nebron, Nectesce, Neelrix, Neepmire, Nefhorn, Negert, Negort, Nelat, Nelbron, Nelesck, Nelynn, Nemstere, Nemweal, Nenaire, Nengret, Nephard, Nephog, Neri, Nerish, Neruus, Nerveer, Nesbin, Neshkem, Nesser, Nestra, Nesvan, Nethelb, Netskra, Nevlyn, Newhar, Nexoz, Nextar, Nexxar, Neywode, Nezuel, Nezzdak, Niand, Nibine, Nibor, Niconde, Nictroi, Nida, Nifeld, Nigil, Nigräl, Nijim, Nijis, Nikusp, Nilgorm, Nilnoi, Nimbol, Nimir, Nimon, Nimrede, Nindiss, Nireal, Nirel, Nirhain, Nirhath, Nirloge, Nirnir, Nisherj, Nishla, Nishmir, Nishran, Nissac, Nissal, Nithilt, Nithlom, Nitra, Nivenk, Nivgrom, Nixin, Nizoon, Nizten, Nogaarn, Nokelm, Nolfig, Noloq, Nolthar, Noorlim, Norahl, Nordell, Nordran, Norfroib, Norin, Noroj, Norstoj, Novvulse, Noxit, Nrial, Nuad, Nubweft, Nuendo, Nuhar, Nulka, Nulvilch, Nummag, Nurgan, Nurrzek, Nuscolg, Nushla, Nuuzsal, Nuxile, Nuzain, Nyankra, Nyassaed, Nybron, Nyconth, Nydaur, Nyeon, Nylray, Nynaeve, Nyra, Nyren, Nysra, Oaffleg, Oakine, Oalilse, Oalyn, Oarine, Obron, Obtin, Ocarg, Oedjert, Oeglath, Oejos, Oenu, Oerusk, Oggran, Ogmarx, Ogstlang, Ohmir, Ohmoul, Ohrool, Ohwhon, Ohya, Olanc, Olbrod, Olcind, Oldaar, Oldac, Oleird, Olesk, Olgeerd, Olisch, Olix, Olney, Olthang, Oluode, Olvoor, Omag, Omazd, Ombaast, Omdret, Omfelx, Omkraum, Omoq, Omron, Onchorl, Ondar, Onilsh, Oninsp, Onolk, Onvrix, Oonglax, Ooxaith, Opaor, Opchel, Opild, Opmar, Opult, Oqueln, Orasch, Orayl, Orbern, Orbohst, Orbweft, Ordol, Orgoch, Orgrool, Orhomb, Orinde, Orisse, Orix, Orjasp, Orkuuz, Orli, Orlim, Ormdrad, Ormerd, Ormuuz, Ornault, Ornith, Oroon, Orpax, Orrisk, Orsind, Orskog, Ortain, Orthmar, Ortholt, Orthroy, Ortkuz, Orvulse, Orwelt, Orxlorn, Osgleft, Oshraal, Osphel, Ospin, Osresp, Ossiz, Ossvule, Osthandl, Othast, Ottlan, Ovaile, Ovar, Owal, Owelft, Owlin, Ouxroul, Oxdren, Oxiv, Oxoor, Ozur, Padath, Palaor, Palew, Palifte, Palvem, Palzac, Pamar, Paminsk, Panarre, Pancraf, Pandak, Pandire, Paneesh, Pangaz, Paono, Paraerg, Parbha, Pargask, Pargus, Parmist, Parnon, Paroul, Parrsath, Paslaive, Paxilp, Pazot, Peaflod, Pelas, Pelase, Pelcourj, Pellin, Pelnos, Pelvest, Pemnarsc, Pendoir, Pendra, Pengarth, Pengron, Peraule, Percaal, Perdin, Perdis, Perisk, Perlask, Perral, Perreld, Perrinx, Perthald, Perzec, Pevel, Pexul, Pezloch, Phaithor, Phaleg, Phanstern, Phaovonce, Pharan, Phargon, Pharvis, Phatuum, Phayra, Phenquor, Phesjan, Phinerc, Phinna, Phinra, Phislid, Phlomel, Pholgon, Phondath, Phynynx, Phyzent, Pidnubb, Pilark, Pilkarn, Pirkrod, Pittheus, Planget, Plitkin, Pluroign, Pnakord, Poddle, Pohlon, Pohnoor, Poroon, Porsthil, Portlusce, Praamon, Praarin, Prabaar, Pravdile, Pressar, Presta, Pretil, Prilsorn, Pritantte, Pritjan, Prollel, Proter, Prothoon, Psattor, Psirrim, Pteron, Pulaaz, Pulisk, Pumish, Purrdiste, Puuhilsk, Puvas, Pyalvar, Pyra, Pyrafe, Pyreyn, Pyrjus, Pyular, Pyzzim, Qraatin, Quaestrin, Quagel, Quagrith, Quaïve, Quaman, Quamrith, Quanar, Quanthon, Quantra, Quanvire, Quardan, Quargom, Quarnos, Quarouth, Quasha, Queageth, Quedrech, Queeden, Queeyat, Quekal, Quelade, Queldrim, Quelges, Quelneth, Quelthar, Quembras, Quenna, Querkez, Querlo, Queryl, Quesan, Quesparl, Quesrol, Quevros, Queygo, Quiddel, Quidre, Quigmoss, Quilmose, Quinaut, Quindle, Quinga, Quinid, Quintarl, Quirrak, Quirvell, Quisrym, Quizlo, Quolbin, Quondoon, Quuddreus, Quyssa, Raaxis, Raband, Raberm, Rablaen, Rabuur, Raccyx, Racere, Radalt, Raddel, Radeld, Raën, Raëss, Raethel, Raevact, Rafain, Rafam, Rafarn, Rafmarth, Raftwen, Rafur, Ragdra, Ragen, Rago, Rahaz, Raina, Raïre, Raishauer, Raistlig, Raistoc, Rajan, Rajin, Raju, Rakeeg, Rakhan, Rakhaz, Rakheer, Rakkim, Rakspire, Rakthvi, Ralik, Ralir, Ralise, Ralith, Ralkeev, Ralvord, Ramat, Ramath, Ranax, Randar, Randor, Ranghen, Rangvair, Rani, Ranid, Ranousse, Ranthur, Ranûk, Ranyem, Rascha, Rascrag, Raslak, Rasmoth, Rastagg, Rastak, Ratai, Rater, Rathdome, Rathgor, Rathlede, Rathor, Raudal, Raudell, Ravann, Ravoe, Ravthek, Raxar, Raxen, Razdan, Razdel, Razul, Rebesc, Reddom, Redlac, Redleth, Reeval, Reevast, Regwelf, Relem, Rellskar, Rellzer, Relmnar, Relmund, Relthar, Remerst, Remist, Renair, Rendkett, Rendlorn, Renjik, Renlaw, Renna, Renquil, Resfrith, Reskem, Resna, Ressif, Restid, Retheer, Retor, Retraaj, Reuzor, Revas, Reyga, Reyna, Rezbain, Rezhar, Rhamaine, Rhandain, Rhavee, Rhaxdan, Rhenea, Rheya, Rhila, Rhiorn, Rhobban, Rhodelx, Rhojann, Rhylash, Riaal, Riak, Ribos, Ridun, Ridya, Rience, Rifdos, Rifgild, Rigar, Riklak, Riksul, Rila, Rillif, Rillu, Rilmorn, Rimchoze, Rimnaaj, Rimsall, Ringool, Rinquel, Rinthmaw, Ripurth, Risnys, Ristang, Riswod, Rivalke, Rivarsh, Rivcol, Riveld, Riverle, Rivlin, Rivoold, Rivrook, Rivvid, Rixel, Rixju, Rizhad, Rizzek, Roäk, Roakey, Roandat, Robforz, Rocaltz, Rodan, Rodhar, Roële, Roëll, Roethord, Rofloef, Rokeel, Rolthar, Rölyat, Rontayn, Roolenth, Roqual, Rorkar, Rothar, Roujat, Roweal, Roxhaast, Royanse, Royskyar, Rubarj, Rubiss, Rudrisk, Ruidh, Rukhjan, Rukuz, Rulbowe, Rulmool, Rumael, Rupaic, Rupsey, Rurik, Rusgar, Rusis, Ruther, Ruusul, Ruvad, Ruwen, Ryalas, Rygarn, Rynell, Rynrys, Rysta, Sabak, Sabal, Sabfane, Sabhel, Sabon, Sabrok, Sador, Sadrouth, Saerdon, Saerulse, Safrence, Safrine, Sagard, Saglamne, Saia, Saihail, Saijax, Salir, Sallese, Samand, Samar, Sambrea, Samler, Sanald, Sanan, Sanar, Sandice, Sangol, Sankor, Sanpalk, Sanrind, Sanrow, Sansal, Santlor, Santrul, Saphyx, Sarbrid, Sarcyn, Sardrum, Sarel, Sarex, Sarfinn, Sargash, Sarik, Sarla, Sarlyn, Sarmuld, Sarnax, Sarode, Saroon, Sarthath, Sarthay, Saruul, Sarvan, Sateer, Sathla, Saudraal, Saugrib, Savak, Savar, Savaunce, Savay, Savot, Savryn, Saxar, Scamire, Scarloth, Scaroth, Scarvlin, Schabith, Scharay, Sclava, Scolath, Scradast, Scrilisp, Searan, Seckba, Sedrim, Seethenn, Segrold, Seheitt, Sejar, Selar, Seldar, Selgren, Selith, Selkind, Selnor, Selris, Selthen, Sember, Sembrith, Semer, Semisk, Sena, Sendrej, Sendure, Sengeld, Senrin, Senther, Sentix, Seonce, Sephrone, Seplacc, Seprism, Seraan, Seranth, Seray, Serdu, Sereste, Serlarc, Sermer, Seroz, Serrof, Serryx, Sersoom, Sertase, Seskel, Sethar, Sethchell, Sethjen, Sethran, Sfaël, Sfennec, Sferaj, Sforakh, Shabrum, Shadar, Shagold, Shahile, Shaifarl, Shalun, Shalvir, Shamad, Shanfa, Sharaq, Sharaz, Sharrak, Sharrel, Sharva, Sharzik, Shastor, Shathak, Shaxa, Shaydayl, Sheerah, Shembis, Shenesk, Shetrax, Shezael, Shiaf, Shialk, Shila, Shilex, Shimar, Shimglor, Shimren, Shintar, Shirak, Shivan, Shiza, Sholmeg, Shruuminth, Shryffin, Shudleet, Shurik, Shurrug, Shyden, Shylath, Siade, Sibvir, Sidron, Sierl, Sila, Silcharn, Sildeed, Silgast, Silgool, Siljenk, Silmat, Silon, Silphane, Silruum, Silure, Silvasp, Silvryn, Simbrul, Sindhi, Siol, Siralk, Sithirg, Sium, Skaaro, Skagra, Skarazk, Skarloch, Skayla, Skedrea, Skeltrin, Skilon, Skorafe, Skurin, Slanslar, Slanthar, Slarood, Slaskren, Slavgar, Slazor, Sleekla, Sleshkeg, Sleynux, Slijash, Slorac, Slurvaum, Smarag, Smerdis, Smialv, Snargai, Snayrod, Sneitad, Snurlix, Sobeck, Sodarg, Solael, Solbar, Soldine, Solis, Solohe, Solok, Solos, Soltar, Sombrid, Sophald, Sorak, Sorgas, Sormtor, Sorquoon, Sorren, Sorven, Sorza, Sotar, Soveh, Soydil, Spalant, Spandrell, Sparveld, Sperax, Spereld, Spirach, Splinvek, Sprimaine, Squamgreve, Srajsken, Sraknis, Sramine, Srebold, Sreeva, Srendix, Srennant, Sriddoth, Sroika, Sroweb, Sryxla, Stajesce, Stalfess, Starklyn, Staygus, Steeglorn, Stengos, Stereth, Steylin, Sthygron, Stielle, Stirgan, Stornrafe, Strakhan, Strakkar, Streggen, Struquil, Stryast, Strylax, Subreen, Suggner, Sujaim, Sulgra, Sulji, Sulmsy, Sulnseir, Sundoth, Sunjeade, Surast, Surigg, Surjan, Surpy, Susstark, Susteelk, Susur, Sutekh, Suukeeg, Suulkas, Suunall, Suvael, Suvrin, Svringal, Swarflig, Swarro, Swendril, Swiez, Syanor, Sybra, Sylfrix, Sylvine, Sylvyn, Symnar, Syphtar, Syrag, Syran, Syssahz, Syzaash, Taarna, Tabrind, Tachel, Tacrine, Tadra, Taedel, Taennyn, Taeral, Taeya, Tagor,Taher, Tahrjun, Taiwine, Talanth, Talar, Taldar, Taleeg, Taled, Talesm, Talgan, Talgraine, Talgyr, Talisk, Talith, Talor, Talthran, Talune, Talven, Talver, Tamar, Tamnuz, Tamone, Tamoorn, Tamriss, Tanchilt, Tandro, Tanha, Tanisk, Tanlin, Tanndo, Tanoor, Tanry, Tanûr, Tanzel, Tanzlor, Taosar, Taoyot, Taran, Tarath, Tarax, Tarcen, Tareth, Tarik, Tarin, Tarisk, Tarith, Tarkand, Tarkrog, Tarlmar, Tarnor, Taron, Taroyn, Tarqu, Tarxas, Tasharg, Tashforn, Tashlex, Tashu, Tashuul, Tasrak, Tasselt, Tasvoor, Taulin, Taval, Tavan, Tavon, Taxlon, Tayerl, Taylin, Tayrsil, Tazen, Tazine, Tchasko, Tealryn, Teawar, Tebish, Tedra, Teekah, Teekug, Teerlin, Tefaz, Tefleer, Tegan, Tegglyn, Tegoth, Teiresh, Teirna, Telaer, Telast, Telcarn, Telett, Telglas, Telgrest, Telkarr, Tellan, Telnar, Telnoom, Telsar, Telva, Telzley, Temorg, Tempros, Tened, Tenelle, Tenjal, Tenlor, Tenna, Tensfar, Tentil, Teode, Terare, Terglaw, Tergon, Terlkin, Terlyn, Ternasse, Terragg, Terris, Tershar, Terslond, Tesin, Teslan, Tevrin, Teyvrilt, Thabou, Thadrum, Thaiduk, Thaki, Thalarn, Thalax, Thaldok, Thamin, Thandart, Thandrov, Thandusc, Thangor, Tharbad, Tharbolt, Tharij, Tharis, Tharjun, Tharkesh, Tharquist, Tharsna, Tharxac, Thaskam, Thaval, Thavarl, Thawlton, Thaxid, Thaxis, Thaxmool, Thaxnar, Thayvudd, Theandra, Thebek, Thelbor, Theleb, Thelin, Thelred, Themnon, Theras, Therbur, Therrak, Therras, Therrat, Thervoh, Thesi, Thesstor, Thibkern, Thimmoz, Thinhla, Thiob, Thios, Thirlain, Thirrild, Thomilt, Thondrac, Thorgeir, Thornix, Thorskal, Thorztar, Thorzyl, Thoskold, Thoye, Thranor, Thraxil, Thremek, Thremix, Thrindish, Thrinyr,Thrykar, Thryxeer, Thugar, Thuldudge, Thulsa, Thurdis, Thuvgalt, Thyra, Thyzlont, Tiaft, Tiak, Tian, Ticham, Tiffrod, Tihan, Tika, Tilal, Tilir, Timaas, Timak, Timdos, Tira, Tiralle, Tirhthri, Tirkan, Tirnor, Tirouv, Tirvil, Tislim, Tisreth, Tisseth, Tithesb, Tivaln, Tlembic, Tlichgo, Tlishat, Tobar, Todyc, Toglank, Tokath, Tokkreft, Tokraz, Tolgarm, Toma, Tonom, Torak, Torang, Torbelt, Torbold, Torden, Toreth, Torghai, Tormir, Torsund, Torthar, Torvin, Torxar, Toscrah, Tourrhok, Tovak, Tovis, Toxathe, Tozjroch, Traalyr, Traken, Tramorn, Trantain, Trantle, Trasven, Travech, Trazom, Tredek, Treeplin, Treffaun, Trefoin, Treizeng, Tremas, Treof, Treslont, Tressak, Trevarq, Trevul, Tricoj, Tridusk, Trilinn, Trisgil, Tristak, Trithax, Triveark, Trizdoth, Troiom, Tromest, Tronvel, Troulden, Trujko, Tsarlit, Tsavan, Tsodjan, Tsojwar, Tsorak, Tuane, Tuchror, Tudlech, Tuezinth, Tugan, Tulkas, Tulsoorm, Tuntix, Turan, Turmasc, Turmis, Turvoost, Turweld, Turzeal, Tuuraj, Tvejasp, Twenja, Twinaile, Twixtib, Tyasaj, Tydwyk, Tylark, Tylith, Tylnen, Tymarl, Tymdrak, Tyrbast, Tyrdon, Tyreen, Tyrgyre, Tyrinx, Tyrlon, Tyrum, Tzichrism, Tzilen, Tziphrin, Udraam, Ufang, Ufoin, Ulak, Ulfade, Ullfrax, Ulli, Ulmyst, Ulos, Ulphar, Ulsplasm, Umbrask, Umbresk, Umchor, Umleer, Ummice, Undreet, Unfegg, Ungax, Unstric, Unstrix, Untveld, Unza, Uqbar, Urdaa, Urdain, Urdal, Urdryce, Urlyn, Urrind, Urthryn, Urtond, Urwoon, Urzvir, Ushnee, Usquik, Ussart, Ussfaal, Ussit, Usstrilt, Ustar, Ustiln, Ustlin, Ustor, Ustorne, Ustrelm, Usxald, Uthmal, Uthnor, Uvorne, Uzfron, Uztum, Vacla, Vadein, Vadrelj, Vadri, Vadru, Vaeddyn, Vaelythe, Vaërn, Vagar, Vaigthlu, Vaitarr, Valan, Valaz, Valbard, Valek, Valen, Valeth, Valgaard, Valgar,Valgarv, Valka, Valkarth, Valken, Valkesh, Valkis, Valkyr, Valmisce, Valreque, Valtarb, Valthoth, Valyn, Vamert, Vamfade, Vanache, Vanek, Vanger, Vannak, Vannyn, Vanra, Vantsled, Vanyar, Vaona, Varat, Varda, Vareth, Varga, Varka, Varlik, Varmon, Varmyr, Varna, Varnac, Varnar, Varnax, Varnaz, Varos, Varrow, Varsta, Vartoor, Vasaav, Vascais, Vasrind, Vathan, Vathar, Vathek, Vaudric, Vayas, Vaydir, Vayi, Vazar, Vazdo, Veäxe, Veena, Vegreth, Vekil, Velaunce, Veldan, Veldin, Velex, Velkind, Velnard, Velsant, Velsard, Velsin, Vembrex, Venast, Vendik, Vengkuld, Venklar, Vennec, Vennsor, Venscoth, Ventorl, Venzra, Veor, Verek, Verisse, Verla, Verlis, Vernar, Vernat, Vernil, Veror, Verren, Vertence, Vervitz, Verwantz, Verxain, Verzod, Veskin, Veswinch, Veyen, Vherla, Viaxx, Vibsoom, Vibur, Vilgrax, Vilraj, Vilsa, Vilthod, Viltor, Viltorc, Vingverd, Virainth, Viran,Virdla, Viscanth, Visharn, Viskrek, Vissir, Vistar, Vistarl, Vithmard, Viux, Vixa, Vixai, Vixlim, Vlastov, Vlitchek, Vluisc, Vlustra, Volcilde, Voldor, Volnir, Vomquind, Vonir, Voozale, Vordnaz, Vorgan,Vorplen, Vorrmor,Vorshak, Vortice, Vosklune, Votorn, Votrax, Voxarl, Vozkoog, Vratund, Vreeleth, Vregom, Vrithon, Vrumtuun, Vryxnir, Vuespra, Vuestri, Vulpix, Vuranc, Vurick, Vurog, Vuron, Vuubul, Vynda, Vyrnael, Vywyn, Vzoris, Wadziq, Waeytef, Wairbren, Walgwim, Wallibt, Walscrin, Wanelj, Wanjok, Wannach, Wanruum, Wanthim, Warbosk, Warell, Warisk, Warthan, Waryn, Wastur, Waylra, Waznak, Weardlon, Wedjeeg, Wedra, Weftig, Weftorb, Weitvan, Welfrede, Welmek, Welndar, Wemsin, Wendath, Weppel, Werclam, Werin, Weshap, Weskin, Westra, Wevkinz, Wextri, Whilfig, Whilmor, Wicrore, Wileert, Wilnim, Wilven, Wilzech, Wirreth, Wirzanth, Wistril, Witrix, Witrost, Wizlow, Wolcharn, Wolkoon, Wolnihr, Worlit, Wraxil, Wrybeck, Wryplax, Wryxerg, Wubneft, Wulfrit, Wurflense, Wusheig, Wuunal, Wuxorn, Wychnor, Wylvin, Wyndbrel, Wyndra, Wyrgon, Wyrsis, Wysholt, Wyvrax, Wyxef, Xadair, Xaedra, Xaelinth, Xaharl, Xaidis, Xaitchek, Xaldreth, Xalkhas, Xalla, Xallath, Xameld, Xanax, Xanbarg, Xandar, Xandrix, Xanille, Xanna, Xanos, Xanrei, Xanthon, Xarafe, Xarakh, Xarek, Xasim, Xaudrin, Xavest, Xavin, Xawnis, Xaxul, Xayide, Xeebract, Xeerha, Xejem, Xela, Xeldon, Xellosp, Xenerge, Xenir, Xephar, Xerra, Xerxisp, Xerys, Xexal, Xhagrim, Xhaibar, Xhomdroll, Xhorald, Xigil, Xion, Xiplin, Xiri, Xirrip, Xloris, Xoncarg, Xopon, Xoris, Xormeer, Xothun, Xovro, Xudeet, Xulan, Xundrahl, Xustral, Xyás, Xyást, Xybeuth, Xycort, Xydorn, Xydra, Xygbenth, Xyhaek, Xykrog, Xylance, Xylarz, Xylvorm, Xymoyl, Xytrin, Yaalder, Yaathab, Yadarl, Yaddith, Yadel, Yadreth, Yadurk, Yaglaid, Yagmoon, Yaklar, Yaklin, Yako, Yakthoob, Yammoth, Yamphut, Yandorn, Yaöth, Yarat, Yarel, Yari, Yarin, Yarnis, Yarram, Yastoz, Yaten, Yatheg, Yavarre, Yavood, Yavroun, Yazlar,Ycore, Yeafosk, Yeifolk, Yeldoj, Yeldrai, Yeoft, Yeoun, Yerdeen, Yergal, Yerkel, Yernoold, Yethler,Yewrapt, Yexil, Yezrik, Yhemnis, Yhemog, Yhoudeh, Yiash, Yildiz, Yilkeyr, Yimzuuem, Yinaun, Yiod, Yirod, Yivthi, Ymar,Ymarl, Yodkin, Yojra, Yombris, Yoorzamph, Yoppulse, Yorim, Yorlask, Yorrak, Yoskan, Yosneth, Yothir, Yottoa, Yrdirr, Yrgash, Yrgil, Yrinth, Yrlmar,Yrvoor, Yuklat, Yuleng, Yurisp, Yuvib, Yuzan, Yween, Zaalit, Zabal, Zabil, Zadko, Zadom, Zadool, Zaelken, Zaery, Zaffar, Zagrosk, Zahur, Zaihra, Zalethe, Zalmic, Zalthen, Zamar, Zamewl, Zamind, Zamog, Zamray, Zanak, Zaneer, Zangor, Zanqua, Zantain, Zanthu, Zantir, Zantyen, Zanurb, Zarak, Zaranthe, Zardal, Zardence, Zardirm, Zardox, Zargoi, Zaric, Zarlon, Zarmarl, Zarouk, Zarphaut, Zarquar, Zarquemf, Zarros, Zarthule, Zastor, Zatarl, Zatheen, Zathras, Zathu, Zatoum, Zausric, Zavach, Zavak, Zavel, Zaviv, Zaxweer, Zayarn, Zaydrim, Zebor, Zebulse, Zedresk, Zefteel, Zehain, Zehirn, Zekal, Zeldaph, Zelgad, Zelgen, Zelisp, Zelked, Zelmarth, Zelminx, Zelvant, Zembis, Zendarg, Zentos, Zeraa, Zerai, Zerakl, Zermish, Zerric, Zervid, Zesdick, Zessain, Zethrel, Zhaizald, Zhakoor, Zhalore, Zhantaine, Zhapris, Zharmele, Zharvek, Zhassa, Zhawend, Zhaya, Zheral, Zhirek, Zhirem, Zhiroq, Zhirquis, Zhogri, Zhomrach, Zhoreb, Zhrana, Zigmoth, Zikuyth, Zilar, Zilmork, Zincir, Zindor, Ziorn, Zirin, Zishuun, Zislun, Zisurgh, Zlanté, Zlatos, Zofram, Zoides, Zojan, Zohldrom, Zolfran, Zoltaft, Zomra, Zondar, Zoorkon, Zopine, Zorac, Zorith, Zorlan, Zorthal, Zosarde, Zrufend, Zugdin, Zugoth, Zuril, Zusdhrun, Zuukan, Zvegnaz, Zyjin, Zyla, Zylaax, Zylyn, Zyrel, Zyrelx, Zytan, Zyxim Three-syllable Names Aathoklaa, Abalore, Abeli, Abreyxorn, Abrisen, Acaena, Acamar, Acarnod, Ackia, Acozer,Acravel, Actinor,Adalon, Adalrik, Adanac, Adasho, Adelin, Adelir, Adembal, Aderak, Aderel, Aderyn, Adhara, Adhirman, Adia, Adian, Adiol, Aditu, Adlaron, Admarlen, Adnirrin, Adnoren, Adracea, Adraeran, Adraewyth, Adrasta, Adrena, Adriphaas, Aelarim, Aerissa, Aeruin, Aetharyn, Aexien, Afaellan, Agador, Agaki, Agari, Agella, Agerquon, Agetan, Agexa, Aginor, Agior,Agnaska, Agraia, Agrasline, Agrasol, Agrias, Agristair, Ahina, Ahorra, Aidaron, Aililry,Ainnatic, Aioula, Aircristir, Aistomar,Ajasonde, Akajur,Akashic, Akasta, Akenchi, Akhrida, Akiina, Akirga, Akirku, Akritas, Akura, Akvaron, Alamak, Alanik, Alanyx, Alardan, Alaris, Alarynd, Alathen, Alatvair, Alaxa, Alaztyr, Albara, Albaral, Alberist, Alberon, Alceon, Alceor,Alchica, Aldachur, Aldaka, Aldamir,Aldirim, Aldrella, Aleasna, Aleaxa, Aleena, Aleidar, Alembis, Alera, Aleva, Alfanar, Alhana, Alidar, Aliet, Alifyan, Alinaeus, Alindra, Alixa, Aljarik, Alkaios, Allindren, Allomir, Alloran, Almarisc, Almeron, Almiel, Alnavor,Alshagrel, Altavan, Altorlan, Altria, Alucard, Alzamar, Alzarin, Amadis, Amadix, Amafer, Amaja, Amakelb, Amanster, Amaremne, Amarette, Amatin, Amazya, Ambrezul, Amelis, Amerill, Amether,Amethi, Amharad, Amilin, Aminak, Amintor,Amlieth, Amolithe, Amorin, Ampenden, Amramyr,Anandra, Anara, Anartig, Anashea, Anatsath, Ancelyn, Ancifer, Andaraan, Andistair, Andolan, Andrasha, Andula, Aneelen, Anfara, Anferas, Anfesef, Angalli, Angemon, Anghyrud, Anhalus, Anici, Anina, Ankrista, Annoxin, Anraculd, Anroana, Ansivlan, Ansuki, Antalyaar,Antarlest, Anterra, Antesri, Anthlamar,Antraneyk, Anzera, Apelnin, Aphithea, Apporrosh, Aquiel, Aquorren, Aradek, Aragaj, Araglas, Arajist, Arakbaal, Arakhreen, Arakin, Araldar, Aralik, Aramil, Aranat, Aranis, Arathorb, Araxis, Arbadrul, Arbalac, Arbalon, Arbitan, Arboran, Arcastor, Archolach, Ardalanx, Ardanos, Ardatha, Ardaxil, Ardelin, Ardilex, Ardiseng, Ardissa, Aregel, Arenith, Arestel, Arfandas, Argethlam, Arghesos, Argion, Argoël, Argolin, Arhanen, Ariann,Arianth, Aribeth,Arien, Arion, Arioth, Ariseph, Arismacht, Aristea, Arivid, Arkadit, Arkaris, Arkavyn, Arkissar, Arkurel, Arlana, Arleano, Arleost, Arlomma, Arokair, Arolant, Arozan, Arpiax, Arrashad, Arrelask, Arrenol, Arriam, Arridor, Arrivid, Arrosas, Arrossai, Arshashi, Arshavir,Artithea, Artlexu, Arura, Arvanor, Arvirask, Aryion, Arzeela, Ascarleth, Ascaveen, Ascomeld, Asgarath, Asherild, Ashikri, Ashilja, Ashnisci, Ashrodu, Asilun, Asius, Aslior, Asmacul, Asmictir, Aspaleed, Asparind, Asphodal, Aspolyme, Asquilla, Astaedi, Astalon, Asteä, Astinus, Astraëa, Asurzel, Atalis, Atazra, Athana, Atheran, Athermoj, Athina, Athnolan, Athrasomb, Athrilas, Atlavan, Atorin, Atralan, Atraxon, Atrujal, Attanir,Atticog, Aturin, Atyoto, Aurever, Aurian, Auridra, Aurina, Aurion, Auxebaz, Avalzaunt, Avandir, Avarath, Avasceen, Avenaar, Aveole, Averdal, Avereem, Avernide, Avèssèd, Avesur,Avori, Avriax, Avronil, Awennes, Axanar, Axarun, Aximil, Ayaren, Ayesra, Azaka, Azakour,Azanakh, Azanor, Azarmax, Azatta, Azella, Azergal, Azfotha, Azilos, Azmarbi, Azmeren, Azolem, Azraxel, Azriaz, Azrienne, Aztira, Azuva, Azuzu, Baeglyndven, Bahnshiath, Bakailis, Bakiar, Balandix, Balanjik, Balathol, Balazar, Balderon, Baledor, Baloward, Baltarreg, Bandibras, Banira, Banjasah, Banjicoy, Banrodi, Bantirgen, Baraca, Barahir, Baramei, Barbardon, Barixid, Barjazan, Barolio, Barsimmern, Bartosca, Barzolo, Basfui, Basidrix, Baslayan, Basliard, Batiax, Baudefloy, Bayazin, Bayidon, Bazakel, Baziran, Beäbrae, Becheton, Bedivere, Behamkai, Belaraz, Belarba, Belathgert, Beldara, Beldaran, Belegern, Belensarl, Belgarath, Belida, Belimu, Belinzith, Belistra, Belithin, Bellarix, Bellinus, Belloram, Belmalar, Belmatar, Benalath, Beorilf, Beoshar, Berazan, Berefex, Berethan, Beriam, Berlemdo, Bermulan, Berterin, Besagren, Bestagar, Bethalus, Beztevil, Bilamarj, Birictzin, Birimi, Birrtezir, Bisuneh, Bithritrilb, Blascarro, Boälod, Boäzye, Bolangi, Bolgodar, Boradrend, Borvazan, Bordvedo, Boridorn, Borivig, Boroqual, Borosov, Boruja, Breldiar, Breyugar, Brindelvix, Brinzindis, Brirelin, Brofothin, Bruyefol, Bundetlan, Burangald, Byjagan, Caadausid, Cadrillan, Cadxiel, Caglaree, Caladon, Caladra, Calandol, Calandra, Calara, Caldiza, Calial, Calian, Calibarz, Caliburr, Calimen, Calinor, Calinthor, Caliroon, Calrohir, Calvari, Calyreg, Camorba, Camrenard, Candelisce, Candralta, Canteril, Capsia, Caradin, Caraman, Carano, Carastac, Cardannor, Cardriman, Carejjar, Carenac, Caribros, Carvirras, Casliet, Cassira, Castivin, Cathloda, Cauluden, Cavrello, Cazago, Cazrogatz, Cedethea, Cedruin, Celasli, Celedrax, Celeldrir, Celenorb, Celephais, Celimbsel, Celissar, Celmiac, Celria, Cemendur, Ceomyr, Cerastes, Cerdotur, Cereden, Ceremeb, Cerindar, Cernaia, Cerrivald, Cerrlemere, Cervetar, Chakjalom, Chalberyn, Chandalla, Charizar, Charovis, Chasergha, Chatony, Chavrenard, Chayuleth, Chedynas, Chemedis, Cherinra, Cheshinif, Chesifith, Chexotah, Chiranin, Chirophanx, Chirystrad, Chissaera, Choriaal, Chrystara, Cialrak, Ciarna, Ciliath, Cillegra, Cimpelis, Cirial, Cirilar, Cisidor, Claraven, Clarian, Clymerice, Colperat, Colverslyne, Conridas, Coramur, Corcoran, Cordago, Corisur, Cormannon, Coromis, Corraemer, Corstanis, Coyasal, Cramorul, Crayeera, Credori, Cresbaral, Crodelan, Cromora, Crondowys, Cruirmox, Crysindlyn, Cthasia, Cubrucol, Curtifer, Cveralisk, Cyarium, Cynalis, Cynara, Cyrilla, Cyrissil, Daakrasef, Dabnavar, Dacarin, Dagaldsain, Dagorla, Daiavend, Dakkiah, Dakokan, Dalarthra, Dalimir, Dallandra, Dallibren, Dalmaxen, Damarel, Damia, Damisen, Dammarlet, Damria, Danatren, Danbrelaj, Daqualor, Daragard, Darandril, Darani, Darimpelg, Darioj, Darisimp, Darnien, Daruda, Darusor, Darvenel, Darvien, Dasanay, Dasyani, Dathanja, Dauroät, Daximyr, Dazaroth, Deglavar, Dekreon, Delalea, Delandim, Delaquoth, Delcardes, Delgadjas, Delgari, Deliard, Delitra, Delmonda, Delonos, Delsinar, Demelsàvre, Deminar, Demithea, Dendera, Denivra, Deowrix, Deralten, Derian, Derisurm, Derokain, Descelet, Desnema, Desthia, Destrino, Devabril, Devaia, Devaren, Deviscind, Devyna, Dezelglim, Dharijor, Diagur, Diamel, Diastul, Diazrax, Diniwirn, Dional, Diony, Dismarntir, Distana, Distiva, Diurmad, Divior, Doälva, Dokessin, Dolitan, Dolskior, Domagren, Domovoy, Doniale, Donivesh, Dorana, Doravin, Doraxa, Dorether, Dorgrian, Dorianth, Dorosard, Drafarna, Draglios, Dralgamor, Drelbaran, Dreleon, Dreower, Drusmirak, Druycalid, Durathor, Duruis, Dusoto, Duvalin, Dvereya, Dygardo, Eberyn, Ecarnis, Echengar, Echredrisk, Edalcor, Edamar, Edaris, Edeera, Edeiric, Edelan, Edromon, Eemonil, Eermiaw, Efelin, Efiath, Egarun, Egeanin, Eglashor, Eglathorm, Ehlmargis, Eilinud, Einnara, Ekisha, Elaara, Eladain, Elanja, Elanlir, Elantir, Elardoand, Elayess, Elbasant, Elbrian, Elcaros, Eldikohl, Eldimyr, Eldivren, Eleaseth, Eleniin, Elerasc, Eleril, Elesfar, Elexna, Elhanter, Elharta, Elhiri, Eliaazh, Elindel, Elion, Elispesh, Elissim, Elistan, Eljendril, Ellamoin, Ellanath, Ellendar, Ellidyr, Elmeric, Elmradra, Elnavor, Elnoë, Elorix, Elriseth, Elrodin, Elrowan, Elsandar, Elverus, Elzirtha, Emeresc, Emistar, Emparyn, Emraël, Enchasol, Endelaer, Endeltrad, Endoyarl, Endremen, Engkalat, Enifrax, Enliack, Ennorath, Enoëre, Ensocand, Enzoray, Eolair, Eolglyu, Eomer, Eosin, Eowine, Eralith, Erbarax, Erdegron, Ereäd, Ereboen, Eregin, Ereia, Ereidan, Ereinid, Eresbor,Ergamarl, Erian, Erihim, Erijin, Erilind, Erilyth, Erimewn, Eriptil, Erizael, Erjesko, Erkollo, Erlata, Erliskan, Ermentej, Ermiod, Ermizard, Erobor, Erraxam, Errixi, Ersazern, Erudin, Eruna, Escaloth, Eshorden, Eskedar, Eslenix, Esmeril, Essamor, Esselin, Estelorn, Estulman, Esyorna, Ethayan, Ethilrist, Ettellarn, Euralen, Eurayo, Evarul, Evedben, Eveltur, Evenor, Everan, Everard, Evidor, Evrilet, Ewugan, Exior, Exorric, Ezirith, Ezpirasp, Ezrabar, Fabliain, Faerlasdar, Fafmalan, Fahorjom, Falamund, Falazarm, Faldian, Faledra, Falias, Faliorn, Fallonar, Falmalin, Famaril, Famiryah, Farammil, Faranar, Farathar, Farazwen, Farendal, Farezar, Farias, Farinda, Farovlem, Farreflan, Farrian, Fassander, Fassiral, Fathanor, Fathimlas, Favular, Fayenned, Felacroy, Felectos, Felendos, Felentir, Felinstrod, Felladin, Fellathor, Fellazoor, Felmarus, Felvia, Fenhalut, Fenkkara, Feollan, Feraanty, Ferazhin, Ferdithir, Ferena, Ferescha, Feridmir, Feridoth, Ferilken, Ferkiel, Fermandra, Fermazeth, Ferozak, Ferrandry, Ferrinox, Fertimqui, Fesanor, Fesmaran, Fethijorn, Fethorval, Fezmirath, Fiaminch, Fiantzin, Fiathna, Fiensar, Fierex, Filigal, Filrena, Finaefin, Findegil, Finmanal, Finrhabar, Fiollix, Fionlex, Fiorag, Fiori, Fiosthan, Firandaal, Firimar, Firmrius, Fivrenesse, Flacoë, Fluimorl, Foäshroud, Fomorisk, Fonesco, Fontaera, Forambad, Forizuld, Foronté, Forrandir, Foxilkin, Fozdollo, Fraajior, Fragadin, Freälaf, Frinilex, Frosserthil, Frugansey, Fuareece, Fulinas, Fulmerack, Fumorak, Furalor, Fusial, Gadino, Gaffindur, Gaherist, Gaianac, Galassad, Galedrej, Galeeya, Galeia, Galendil, Galhambraj, Galhandvis, Galiel, Galjiu, Gallaia, Galorin, Galrion, Galthien, Galtyran, Galvaris, Gambrefax, Gamorrand, Ganatus, Ganelon, Ganoraz, Ganscion, Ganzadahl, Garagrim, Garalden, Garathgen, Garduil, Gardulkar, Garemo, Garflion, Garlenon, Garriech, Garziot, Gastenmil, Gatlatas, Gatzeiros, Gavendra, Gavilen, Gefandrall, Gelsgiath, Genteras, Gerergol, Gerexi, Geskrivus, Gevanarth, Ghiella, Gidyrrha, Gildanar, Gilennan, Gilfangron, Giljrian, Giltsanos, Gimika, Gipideur, Girazi, Giridal, Giridyne, Giriel, Girkirath, Gisorath, Gisriral, Gisselek, Givirtrik, Gizarak, Gizbion, Gizherae, Gledrion, Gleocyn, Gleyander, Gliranna, Glirfingril, Goibhniu, Golexar, Goloë, Gonscevin, Gontomir, Goranna, Gorazky, Gordalis, Gorias, Gorion, Goronwy, Goronyr, Gorova, Gorthokon, Graginar, Graliath, Gredanost, Griarnix, Griotam, Grissejan, Grolliax, Gualat, Guilmarn, Gulifrith, Gurnarok, Gwyrion, Gydrian, Gymnivus, Gyrelyest, Hacoulede, Hadowrak, Hafranel, Haielva, Haijannod, Hajandin, Hakatri, Halibarn, Halios, Haliwyn, Halveron, Halvia, Hamadar, Hamancen, Hamavand, Hanamere, Haneran, Hanorayn, Hanrassu, Hantaira, Haplana, Haprissa, Harana, Harandash, Harezek, Hargranar, Harigran, Harnahad, Harobel, Harondar, Harromarl, Harsinna, Hartien, Hartazan, Hasalgar, Hasprion, Hathlizu, Hathvoril, Hautilim, Hautulin, Hauxpomel, Haxmaraun, Haxmaspar, Haxmered, Hazalet, Hazazel, Hazharat, Haziran, Hedrapake, Heereos, Hekeren, Helbathil, Helobaine, Helphegad, Helziatz, Hemgarel, Henalur, Herecharn, Heriganj, Heriol, Hessevet, Hethica, Heuleanar, Hexavren, Hexelin, Hiabaid, Hiassveil, Hifridil, Higlaia, Hilio, Himurlem, Hintyrit, Hirodrix, Hizirin, Hokryähn, Holmarun, Horbajir, Horlabo, Hralfecca, Hrioncet, Hulterna, Hurjaël, Huvatal, Hyaliptar, Hyarantar, Hydrestin, Hylamet, Hylarel, Hylissa, Hyphorond, Hyraskel, Hyrkhalla, Hyzaspes, Iahaun, Iarlen, Iasho, Ibekon, Ibgali, Ibrana, Ibriax, Ibriole, Icanaar, Icavra, Icera, Ichandrik, Ichindar, Idarlan, Iffalon, Igjaru, Ijevthla, Ikarin, Ikirkar, Ilabrem, Ilairam, Ilarnin, Ildezir, Ilenfal, Ilfangir, Ilfinir, Ilgaeldar, Ilikir, Ilimvair, Ilkerné, Ilkyarzim, Illana, Illara, Illiarn, Illsuin, Illuanc, Illurdan, Ilkaroque, Ilnitelg, Ilrehjan, Ilumaar, Ilvelisk, Imaia, Imajin, Imashla, Imaydra, Imedet, Imikeer, Imilxime, Imisard, Immelanx, Immoreth, Immornam, Imnatris, Imrahran, Imravog, Imrazixt, Imzia, Inayiss, Indreju, Ingrenux, Inhectin, Inidar, Inifael, Inifox, Ininay, Inisdex, Inisfail, Inkiljist, Inkotai, Innoäk, Inora, Insallasc, Intaphka, Inzellene, Ioga, Iolan, Iombar, Iosaz, Iosdil, Iperi, Iphara, Ipholar, Ipolok, Iptasor, Irankar, Irathar, Ireneemp, Irial, Irian, Iriboth, Iriga, Irmaskor, Irmistib, Irphilin, Irriosce, Irshirkur, Isaelsu, Isamar, Isarma, Isbexa, Isencal, Isgremnir, Ishmira, Ishnitra, Isiki, Iskarrine, Iskimi, Iskiret, Isodrost, Isotu, Isromant, Isrotha, Issakra, Issanthal, Issevex, Issimrak, Istengrem, Istensanth, Isthentild, Istheol, Isthgiol, Istidom, Istijed, Istroval, Isuxnen, Itharna, Ithelus, Ithimryr, Ithineg, Ithober, Iventhax, Ivrishel, Iwranda, Ixambel, Ixanthis, Ixarine, Ixcavar, Ixium, Iyenna, Iyiskek, Izpiizzi, Jabarla, Jablomeed, Jaelmura, Jafila, Jagadis, Jagaroch, Jahaurin, Jakalar, Jakarhul, Jakendar, Jakharral, Jakronib, Jalaran, Jalatha, Jaleana, Jaligar, Jalisharn, Jalnio, Jalvochin, Janceä, Jandagar, Jandenor, Janien, Janniel, Jaralor, Jarantin, Jaratryne, Jardilan, Jarien, Jarioth, Jaronris, Jascelat, Jascenant, Jaslani, Jassolind, Jatherfar, Jathlabra, Jathzoril, Jaukulmar, Jaurelin, Javennae, Javrezac, Jazaeron, Jejaneel, Jeleeya, Jelerish, Jelgrion, Jemadar, Jemkoleng, Jeoric, Jeoster, Jeprana, Jertezan, Jervida, Jessabra, Jevalor, Jevedic, Jevorin, Jevrian, Jhessala, Jhinilak, Jianthi, Jidesa, Jifrusni, Jijinjic, Jilarna, Jilitha, Jillaro, Jingaran, Jiriselk, Jiruik, Jivessla, Jivizet, Jixannil, Jizuret, Joäsra, Joplezno, Jorian, Joriel, Jorodrin, Josafyre, Jothaugan, Jothera, Jozranal, Jranahaz, Juarin, Jumeon, Juramanx, Jussondrel, Juxeccan, Juzawik, Kacinzen, Kadishir, Kahora, Kairaku, Kajabor, Kajua, Kalandrin, Kaledath, Kalvaro, Kamisu, Kamundam, Kandonak, Kandorin, Kapasin, Karaël, Karamis, Karanchir, Kardarkar, Kardotha, Karela, Karezthame, Karimeg, Karogan, Kasiran, Kasluna, Kastana, Kastauët, Kasthukras, Kathanal, Katryzaj, Katumar, Kazellor, Kazuön, Kedrinal, Kelemon, Kelmerveld, Kelraiog, Kelvixa, Kemmergen, Kerannix, Kerason, Kerasun, Kerendul, Kerfina, Kernamald, Keroona, Kerrekril, Kerrihaude, Kestramel, Kexranea, Khadera, Khalidûr, Kharisden, Khelaret, Khorenym, Khosilin, Khuraram, Khurkula, Kiarak, Kiaskek, Kifadli, Kinbulser, Kinjeon, Kintarna, Kioxug, Kireoj, Kirias, Kiriok, Kirithul, Kirrevi, Kiuspou, Kizarlon, Klandisar, Klirundon, Kodoki, Korachon, Korasal, Kortien, Korvaron, Kotajad, Kothenai, Kovaia, Kozanga, Krasgalad, Krienna, Krisilal, Krytelgaz, Kuiju, Kydomor, Kylara, Kylinsra, Kymelin, Kymorel, Kyrembra, Kyvaran, Kyveler, Laaraban, Lacoumox, Lacrion, Ladamur, Ladestro, Laesina, Lafera, Lagaram, Lagova, Lahanolt, Laklanot, Lalaia, Lalthilan, Lamidris, Lamifer, Lamizjax, Lampralur, Lamrella, Lanisor, Lanival, Lanstreä, Lantakrel, Lantamar, Lanumel, Lappeleme, Laprimal, Larana, Laranel, Larilect, Larion, Larquinip, Lascynthis, Lasirusk, Lataffin, Lattremond, Lazadon, Ledmial, Legaaruksh, Lelatha, Leledish, Lendela, Lendoweer, Leodaan, Leojith, Leoptrin, Leptenar, Leptredin, Leranorb, Lessefren, Lethrian, Levasim, Lhyrrhana, Liamar, Liambra, Liammeck, Lianairn, Liansra, Lianvrin, Liarxa, Liavec, Liembra, Lilasta, Lilkauki, Lilthia, Limbria, Linargan, Linnaker, Lionus, Liossoor, Liquemar, Liroitzin, Lisimbra, Lissara, Lissflorel, Lithuir, Lithyulin, Litoefer, Liydala, Lizenna, Lizinra, Llanaanu, Loëra, Logano, Lorana, Lorenvra, Loriant, Lozeneth, Luciet, Lucimer, Lunzia, Lurepusc, Luspilkir, Luthirring, Luuranoth, Lydalay, Lymandal, Lynaya, Lyndré, Lynxias, Lypilla, Lyraloss, Lyrian, Lyrossa, Lyrozi, Lythian, Lythratole, Lyzeary, Maalkeyan, Maceon, Madaluur, Madiglim, Madora, Maerleetlas, Maeronyx, Mafranic, Magezatt, Magithel, Maglethom, Magylin, Mahelas, Majaelith, Makana, Malaësse, Malaioc, Malambard, Malandor, Malasire, Malasquor, Malavok, Malbrosac, Maldagon, Malechan, Malestrin, Malgadarn, Malhantis, Malhemar, Malidryth, Malifrin, Malisken, Mallaran, Maloroc, Malsanon, Mamvier, Mandrezool, Manjalem, Mannanon, Mantragan, Maöndat, Mapiran, Mardieth, Maridan, Maridisp, Marindro, Marinus, Marivik, Marliok, Marmaranx, Marmeron, Marniel, Marreldix, Marsarok, Marsineh, Martanzix, Maruis, Mashalla, Masira, Massoran, Mathannil, Matzirik, Maunestin, Mavira, Maxander, Maxtibel, Mazegus, Mazesra, Mazian, Mazivel, Medarinn, Medrahar, Medvergaal, Mehalet, Mejarlan, Mekeesha, Melamnir, Melapis, Melasdar, Melikkhaz, Meliune, Melliorn, Melorond, Memisaire, Menalor, Mendobarl, Menelvaour, Meodas, Meraleph, Merama, Meramel, Meranshu, Meraudax, Meriag, Meridyn, Meriel, Merilec, Merinar, Merinard, Merivran, Merkalo, Merlience, Merresil, Merscianthe, Mertamet, Mesegrim, Metrofa, Mevedet, Mewreddan, Mezedan, Mezerel, Mezlehet, Mezlethil, Mezrian, Mezrenain, Mezvorax, Mialdere, Mialorn, Midela, Mierah, Mikramil, Milicseth, Minaxa, Minrioth, Miranei, Mirantilb, Mirelith, Mirenta, Miriel, Mirieth, Mirintha, Mirion, Mirreschade, Mirrsomi, Misella, Misiplum, Misirim, Mithelos, Moälroc, Mobrias, Moieddin, Moisiane, Molhanni, Mondestin, Moramin, Morannel, Morilimth, Morleved, Mormindar, Morofar, Morozam, Morrixan, Mosbelo, Movellan, Moxfiel, Mrankali, Mredisu, Mujeket, Mulciner, Mumivor, Murbahir, Murias, Murinja, Mustesra, Mylbdenir, Mylenost, Myllara, Myloryx, Myractus, Myrmelesc, Myrrhismir, Myrstica, Myruken, Myvior, Naadien, Nabronyb, Naëska, Nagarax, Naiagard, Najikim, Nambolar, Namezlith, Namien, Nappolanc, Naramant, Naranlob, Naraven, Narecan, Naretha, Narfalax, Narimas, Narisdaat, Narissa, Narotham, Narothun, Narrabhar, Narseldax, Nasmerul, Nateera, Nathogan, Natrifer, Nauthzegam, Naveiruz, Navislorn, Navithesk, Nefaroyn, Negula, Nelibar, Nelphina, Nelthenti, Nelveren, Nemarhaz, Nemisen, Nereitra, Nerevaunt, Nerian, Nerida, Neryonid, Netharna, Nethoël, Neveena, Nexian, Nexlio, Niascynth, Nidoran, Nienra, Niggollo, Nilchauntif, Nilmio, Nimandest, Nimfiralth, Nimiax, Ninozain, Niomakh, Nisamon, Nisaqua, Nissafen, Nitharna, Nithikin, Nitoda, Nivilan, Nizamar, Nizared, Noldiruth, Nolteera, Nooranda, Norian, Norvandrel, Noumander, Novrima, Noxalwan, Nuanvi, Nuarban, Nujriha, Nulagdi, Nuskuron, Nyrana, Nysorat, Obatzi, Obelnid, Ocmias, Odimos, Offenalke, Ogola, Ohranjat, Ojavi, Ojilinx, Okalder, Okpala, Oktavisp, Olamar, Olbenos, Oldarane, Oldrinben, Olican, Ollascet, Olnefkin, Olondin, Olonthos, Oloru, Oloxem, Olybris, Omaldras, Omaphel, Omarna, Omarthis, Omberdal, Ombriand, Ommarisk, Omosdur, Omziec, Onaldrus, Oneira, Onfivlen, Oniack, Onjedrit, Onoxim, Oolevran, Oomia, Oorandehle, Oquilda, Oradrad, Orbasdron, Orbeleez, Orbitan, Orchellor, Orebus, Oremex, Orenai, Orennem, Oridyr, Oriob, Oristkel, Orithreyn, Orivaen, Orlantsu, Orliend, Orlopem, Orluan, Ormadzel, Ormarit, Ormion, Ornulaa, Orodel, Oromrath, Orovar, Orovune, Orpirrhis, Orreminsk, Ortazan, Osgoran, Oskana, Osmoril, Osoyrir, Ossfenness, Otargol, Othaldon, Otralinx, Oujanglor, Ouraia, Ovarasc, Ovelleau, Oveselm, Ovranoj, Ovrenor, Oxavar, Oxavart, Oxruël, Ozatris, Ozgethern, Ozmirall, Ozringol, Palabell, Palarna, Palegain, Palidral, Palimbrust, Palinor, Panafig, Pandaxes, Pandelee, Pandeleur, Paomelna, Pardyereyk, Pargascir, Parlion, Paskorran, Pastengral, Pavadahl, Pavandor, Paxijanc, Paxilla, Pazaleeb, Peladon, Peledor, Pelendur, Peleod, Pelezef, Peliast, Pelizon, Pellingale, Pelmercest, Pelmergol, Pelsiffra, Penengvik, Peradal, Peraga, Perendan, Perendor, Peridor, Peripril, Perisgrim, Peristaad, Perligon, Pernian, Perridex, Persimmid, Perushka, Peslivar, Petreban, Phaidonaz, Phaneon, Pharethyn, Phariol, Pharnioth, Phascalon, Phesian, Phiarusk, Philizim, Phiniak, Phiressa, Phoosrotex, Phoseter, Phramberzond, Phranzulet, Piapiar, Pievalp, Pillia, Pioma, Pirigal, Pirilaud, Pirinweal, Piritosk, Pisçion, Pishior, Pithibryl, Piynameer, Plamias, Plenchiel, Poinellay, Poinembet, Polassar, Polorrum, Porodo, Porsenna, Potadu, Priligrel, Progneti, Ptamriad, Ptelian, Pteraphon, Pulsavra, Pyrenda, Pyrtolosc, Pytholtus, Pytrigon, Quaeleon, Quagrana, Qualbian, Qualhassan, Quanaöck, Quandiel, Queegani, Quenteri, Quentezard, Queoddry, Queridra, Queroë, Quersemel, Quilium, Quilverex, Quinibus, Quisifrix, Quolatha, Quolessip, Quoranûl, Quyzacorm, Raascia, Racassar, Rackafel, Radasman, Radelon, Radula, Raiveral, Rajiten, Rajurno, Rakmyrral, Rakshilan, Ralanzur, Ralisimp, Ralmanor, Ralystra, Ramura, Ranessin, Ranicroy, Ranifice, Ranomar, Rasaleth, Rashemba, Rassdolim, Rasseglin, Rassfydel, Rastilon, Ravathene, Ravenor, Raverail, Ravimo, Raxia, Razamor, Raziel, Reänkal, Reepifer, Regalorj, Regimir, Reldorin, Releza, Relikin, Relion, Rellevirk, Relliapt, Relundar, Rendeptir, Renzelath, Reonin, Requiek, Rescorance, Resmenalse, Retalkin, Rethia, Revenal, Rezmyra, Rhakotis, Rhendalin, Rhiacind, Rhimaya, Rhimeren, Rhisala, Rhomiscele, Rhydolin, Rhyölar, Riasine, Riatar, Riatha, Rickata, Rigisil, Rigonav, Riimara, Rilatha, Rilidtai, Rilmara, Rilmorban, Rinxfantir, Riodan, Riolarn, Riolba, Riscintell, Risgana, Risia, Risrinam, Rithotarl, Rixian, Rizifire, Rocapeste, Rodifel, Rodion, Roënen, Rokefyre, Romela, Romenom, Rondolla, Rophelon, Rophendir, Rosmarlind, Rouädth, Rovlerac, Rozeeldin, Rugiel, Ruhria, Rumilan, Runian, Rusaadi, Rusalmna, Rusitholk, Ruvasarn, Ruvatro, Ryözile, Rynian, Rynristas, Rynyris, Ryxarro, Sabrazsa, Sabriel, Sabtimon, Sadabel, Sadeera, Sadonel, Safarrinx, Saffinka, Sagamir, Saguil, Saïnda, Sajaerix, Salaarus, Salathir, Salclias, Salina, Salinen, Salioct, Salitlan, Salmorin, Salrissa, Samalend, Samerlan, Sancial, Sannsara, Sanorye, Sanpellin, Sanseran, Sanzhara, Saqavar, Sarandere, Saraxa, Sardanak, Sarendril, Sargadal, Sariya, Sarkinos, Sarkozan, Sarlian, Sarmasar, Saroë, Sarozak, Sarrier, Sarrofo, Sarsicaul, Sartenna, Sarupha, Saschalon, Sathlatta, Satrothan, Savêma, Savretos, Savria, Scathanar, Scesefna, Sebandune, Selamvra, Selestor, Selial, Selidro, Selior, Selmiar, Selnara, Selnia, Selsabar, Selverel, Semarsen, Semdalice, Semmagel, Semurquan, Sendara, Senoster, Seorra, Sepiroth, Seprenal, Sepria, Serakel, Serambast, Seramir, Serefic, Serrios, Sertumen, Servelen, Serydran, Seskandal, Sevandir, Sevandor, Severique, Severlesk, Sevlasné, Seytarin, Sfaeriqua, Sferalan, Sferio, Shaikala, Shalimed, Shameera, Shanatherl, Shanderzoth, Sharajsha, Sharbremil, Shardovan, Sharretal, Shaxeän, Shehallem, Shekkazad, Sherethis, Sherina, Sherotha, Shevrian, Shibema, Shiennith, Shildakor, Shimjian, Sholgonda, Shragonach, Shrymaroyne, Shurakai, Shushila, Sialtaan, Sianar, Siandar, Siandor, Siannem, Sidanzar, Siendred, Sientij, Sientrib, Siflana, Sigilla, Sildengold, Silifer, Silistel, Silivis, Silmriel, Silvarak, Silvronom, Simara, Simblio, Simirling, Simisthir, Simrana, Simusha, Sindaract, Sindiris, Sindiroq, Sinhadak, Sinira, Sinoprin, Siortlen, Sioshorl, Sirelu, Sirenel, Sirgamesc, Sirifrix, Sirinar, Sisimar, Sisimbra, Siugorn, Sjalara, Skalidra, Skelalack, Skelogha, Skelother, Skesira, Slanarra, Slanria, Slenlior, Slevindralsk, Slyrmegnel, Sofrego, Sofurin, Soleddin, Solfellan, Soliroq, Solliot, Solmerip, Soltharan, Somagar, Sondaardrel, Sondrelen, Soomerak, Soquallin, Sorasta, Sormian, Sozmerold, Srandelix, Sravoorin, Steraval, Sthinalel, Stiaver, Stivernach, Sudevim, Sufranar, Suilim, Sujorgni, Sukratak, Sulathaag, Sulethri, Suliane, Sulien, Sulimo, Sulkanar, Sulkari, Sulroné, Surmaris, Suruay, Suzamil, Svialdan, Swangoren, Sweiborla, Sylvetane, Symaril, Syriolg, Syzirept, Szivistri, Taalivex, Tabusaad, Tadasli, Tafashic, Tainbara, Taladere, Talareme, Talarin, Talertus, Talien, Taliess, Talieux, Talion, Talislance, Talmora, Taloxar,Taloxi, Talunon, Tamavold, Tamias, Tamioj, Tamlivran, Tamnithir, Tanafin, Tanakord, Tanier, Tanjalas, Tanjara, Tanseral, Tanviu, Tarakus, Taramag, Taramos, Tardelin, Tariaj, Tarkenthos, Tarmesorn, Tarmioc, Taroya, Tasardy, Taslhiot, Tassafert, Tassiran, Taumonar, Taveli, Tavista, Tayaren, Teänyn, Tegana, Tegleron, Teirajan, Teirishir, Telarna, Telcyra, Teldrua, Telegris, Telendys, Teleura, Telnarzim, Temeris, Temeslin, Temmosus, Temontel, Tenadas, Tenidrist, Teotsir, Terasiln, Terejoen, Terena, Terquaelen, Terrenus, Terthelej, Terthyrkrim, Tervaën, Tesmarrak, Tevala, Tezarim, Thadarin, Thalafer, Thalaras, Thalira, Thalladyle, Thameera, Thamiel, Thanalar, Tharamoon, Tharnia, Tharomyl, Tharoval, Thellikkin, Thelodin, Thereski, Thieras, Thieryn, Thirindon, Thithrama, Thitrivar, Thixagen, Thlenedern, Thlunarna, Thoorana, Thrabanquo, Thumithar, Thurmatoth, Thuuvanar, Tiabrell, Tiachul, Tianan, Tiaosut, Tiaxa, Tiazan, Tiefkol, Tifulgar, Tigrana, Tirages, Tiregam, Tirelev, Tirion, Tirlimist, Tirrasthu, Tissawane, Titia, Tivadul, Tiveran, Tivriex, Tiyagar, Tizvian, Tolarim, Tolarmej, Tolenka, Tolibell, Toramus, Torbera, Torgassin, Torlion, Tormitran, Toroäsh, Toroman, Torquenyx, Torresind, Torsamant, Torzundus, Tothirnal, Tralien, Tralquien, Traviod, Tredestin, Trellium, Trenaevis, Trilajo, Trinezhan, Triolus, Trisdestrin, Troviawn, Trydaron, Trysadon, Tsacramal, Tsalkoril, Tuilleth, Tulio, Tuniger, Turmalin, Turobel, Turvesin, Twanalor, Twillessin, Tylastreen, Tyldora, Tylenea, Tyradin, Tyrathis, Tyrtyra, Tzaroli, Ualosk, Ubdakon, Udanax, Udanib, Udefoin, Udrahart, Udria, Ufanort, Ufial, Ugivor, Uilda, Uilric, Uixet, Ukinorn, Ulanthas, Ulember, Ulendal, Ullifan, Ulnavell, Ulnaxdra, Ulrepin, Ulroënce, Umaspin, Umbraheed, Umbrina, Umerac, Umeri, Umikrel, Umistal, Undalryn, Unedrinj, Unkalisk, Unstoffel, Uraör, Urghazkoy, Urhankren, Urimnor, Urjalum, Urjaya, Urmalgis, Urrelor, Urzunift, Uscrumine, Usegar, Ushamtar, Usigul, Uskanast, Ussala, Ussolec, Ustaleaugh, Uthudain, Utorel, Uveena, Uxavis, Uxinor, Uxuvi, Uzileth, Uziprost, Uzirin, Uzisloj, Vacruëx, Vakrissa, Valabar,Valadan, Valagarth, Valandrib, Valarend, Valarom, Valaxis, Valdera, Valfoxel, Valina, Valion, Valistes, Vallia, Valmerac, Valphanar, Valserna, Valterla, Valthomé, Vanamon, Vanara, Vanathil, Vandelex, Vanegrin, Vangrahzmid, Vantarad, Varamanx, Varamid, Varamis, Varcantis, Varchimas, Varkellit, Varlandel, Varraël, Varrakel, Vashlion, Vasmarro, Vaudirek, Vayemis, Vedaraf, Veezproä, Velaila, Velanac, Velija, Velina, Velior,Velissa, Velozma, Velvermeld, Vendramyr,Veneska, Venithros, Venmarenc, Vercazlyde, Vereedra, Verenice, Vereska, Verethest, Verissrad, Verolant, Verowa, Vervadesce, Ververine, Veslomere, Vetrengarr, Vettemis, Vhiallon, Viastin, Viastra, Videla, Videssos, Viero, Vilirast, Vilrokin, Vilscelyn, Viomer,Virandisp, Virenar, Virensa, Virjauruk, Virosanne, Virthuren, Vismarun, Visperime, Vixuad, Vixuël, Vizina, Vladilesk, Vlarobaal, Voiopë, Vojeera, Voldisterre, Volkazen, Volmaran,Voluru, Vonidar, Voozcoreme, Voranor, Vorchazel, Vorelgin, Vorien, Vornica, Vornovas, Vorquemand, Vorunir, Vorvadoss, Vosmerrel, Vossari, Vozmarald, Vrepimus, Vrilestamn, Vristamor, Vuëthar, Walspinore, Wandalar, Wanestka, Wantorak, Wardlanof, Warlwier, Warrigel, Wascramin, Wasmoët, Watreyan, Wazerac, Wedonal, Welmerel, Wendower, Werrelet, Werscunok, Weverin, Wexavin, Whallifrond, Whearius, Whibmistle, Wianna, Wicardod, Widzoonaev, Wignaja, Wiinecot, Winian, Wodhrian, Woringel, Woxethoon, Wrodlian, Wurzemand, Wyliath, Xadamos, Xadogar, Xaisuruk, Xalorof, Xanafel, Xanalver, Xanbiah, Xania, Xantenmec, Xanxia, Xaraata, Xargusull, Xarthia, Xeelafarl, Xeelona, Xegessem, Xelica, Xemeret, Xemindar, Xenia, Xeralisk, Xerdelisse, Xerechron, Xhalsadan, Xhanazlet, Xhodrovan, Xibalba, Xiifrani, Ximahlto, Ximakran, Ximodi, Xirian, Xirijasp, Xoänon, Xomdiral, Xorandor, Xoryalan, Xyaria, Yaimondar, Yakovar, Yakthodah, Yalduvar, Yaliath, Yallarna, Yallorind, Yalveron, Yamala, Yamindra, Yandelar, Yandrahla, Yaralet, Yarial, Yarillo, Yarzolept, Yashengzeb, Yathagault, Yathoric, Yathorlak, Ybalil, Ybranar, Yeltranal, Yeluöz, Yemanthal, Yemboloth, Yerdien, Yesgolod, Yevjarel, Yfremoon, Ygristan, Yhantuör,Yldejaste, Ymarisce, Ymbria, Yncaarim, Yohonough, Yonraloth, Yoplossa, Yoredan, Yormexoon, Yranthis, Yratos, Yrcanos, Yronthol, Yrwelos, Yryloth, Ythlyra, Ythribond, Yurnada, Yusperal, Yuzigral, Zaamontel, Zadamun, Zadipan, Zadrowane, Zagrenxa, Zaharbif, Zajrenja, Zakiwya, Zalagi, Zalanath, Zalazar, Zalberek, Zalremy, Zamberel, Zamblezur, Zamora, Zamordax, Zamorla, Zanatir, Zanestra, Zangabal, Zanindil, Zanreynad, Zantifer, Zanzinel, Zaraana, Zaranave, Zaranax, Zarfhaano, Zarimarth, Zathmandar, Zayzazi, Zazamanc, Zazumel, Zazwinoon, Zebalan, Zefaeran, Zefrondus, Zelemorn, Zelgadis, Zellinet, Zelmarine, Zelprothon, Zemanthel, Zemirtol, Zenaxa, Zenilyeth, Zenithral, Zenorsha, Zentrigar, Zeosard, Zephiron, Zequiel, Zeranoj, Zhelavon, Zhemaeta, Ziacalt, Zifidin, Zilkorlaz, Ziraldra, Zirdarbis, Zirzihin, Zoälmar, Zoändrik, Zoävar, Zochiad, Zodolin, Zoltaren, Zominor, Zoramus, Zoranji, Zorashad, Zorayas, Zorestrel, Zorewyr, Zoroma, Zoromesh, Zosmindo, Zotaquaan, Zotheera, Zozminod, Zubvuysa, Zulaeram, Zulpirek, Zurenkin, Zurliban, Zydaraf, Zylarthen, Zyramythe, Zytavirk Multi-syllable Names Abadapnyr,Abrethendar, Acrasian, Adario, Adieseth, Adilikor, Adinalar, Adriaxa, Afelanidd, Aforvalon, Agiora, Agreliwin, Aguidran, Aguilla, Aikikia, Akitarka, Alanahetra, Alarion, Alartia, Alarurigu, Alcidio, Aldarian, Alelakon, Aleshmara, Aletorim, Aleuworust, Alianala, Alicindra, Allessanya, Alorassanz, Amafeyan, Amathenar, Amdaramast, Amiria, Amriffien, Anaumiantis, Anelofar,Angetenar, Angurvidel, Animeldio, Anixido, Ankitarla, Ansamanthion, Ansimantar, Anspiladri, Antillia, Aphiana, Aptolcater, Aptrinuptium, Aquilia, Aradlumé, Araledek, Aramanzom, Aramestor, Arania, Arazederu, Arazynxa, Ardzefurith, Arezia, Arhilian, Arianroth, Ariaria, Ariaxoc, Arismaspia, Ariyava, Armalisrah, Aroxian, Arrolian, Arsevalin, Artalien, Aruzustin, Arzangiran, Asalirin, Asarlia, Asicia, Aslambarash, Aslerion, Asthania, Asuricorm, Atarana, Athiana, Athlebasia, Athoriel, Atiaran, Aulurien, Avalenar, Avanimmerl, Avelembai, Aviathar,Axajaxas, Azeledim, Azgelazgus, Aziria, Barosathlom, Barylophar, Bazkalia, Beledira, Belintraia, Belrablion, Borosiyan, Bradullio, Brodalcaflar, Cajarrida, Calaneüs, Calasapia, Caldiloran, Caleria, Calgalcandar, Calidundarios, Calliwelleran, Calmamelis, Caratrothis, Carthazian, Casrinian, Cassrimello, Cauditriceä, Cerelama, Chaestebalon, Chalirio, Chaölthanesh, Chisirion, Cinariyan, Cinnarath, Cirthavion, Coäberul, Coëxitaq, Corancoän, Coreliad, Corrilisan, Cossario, Crotimian, Cuidurjau, Cymoria, Dajuvius, Dakrolidur, Dameraxia, Daraviel, Daraztheon, Darsimala, Darsurion, Dassalpian, Daxxihidil, Delrinian, Demasaran, Demeriolet, Devaloka, Diamerune, Dicadoran, Didoria, Dinrudromon, Dirinnia, Dolohies, Dophinrian, Dornatentorl, Drevixibrind, Drexorvion, Duralica, Dyskilian, Eälisen, Eätinor, Ebriany, Eclaramon, Efarion, Efiranlas, Egajia, Eglaharant, Eglantarask, Elantargin, Elarial, Eleglorross, Elianna, Elisdriel, Elivinté, Ellyria, Elortaöl, Eltaria, Elverion, Elysia, Emelesis, Emelsyna, Enstarlamyn, Entalaroth, Epimissia, Erejitha, Eremiess, Erengazor, Erigia, Erivalda, Escalinian, Escamorid, Eschurioz, Esmerashard, Esnaramik, Etheriasa, Etianor, Etybrinel, Ezaltarem, Ezellohar, Faedulias, Falastien, Falerio, Falyrias, Farsemnithal, Favaijeness, Felarica, Felmarien, Feresilmar, Fiarazio, Fiespegar, Fimalemuen, Finactias, Fiormezath, Firvintilis, Flamorriwisp, Flaxifyglar, Foäzekov, Folsalino, Frixalissa, Fusafandra, Fuvusarooz, Gaflorinos, Galathanax, Galdviara, Galirrhyalen, Gambrimanthus, bOOK OF NAMES 181 Ganthelios, Ganvarathimyr, Garlinian, Gauribanon, Gazaforen, Geluruëm, Gemaleon, Ghondaliom, Giavicel, Gikishika, Gorvonia, Halremsolath, Hanciara, Harfelengol, Hatuina, Hazrathsimoon, Hazrinivra, Herazibrax, Hiabezur, Hidolebni, Hipalonin, Hizzlechaltezeme, Hlantremiër, Hovancomi, Hurania, Hyfeäntio, Ibaletri, Idriella, Ierendi, Igadiax, Iglithebem, Ilanayom, Ilerida, Ilirsiya, Ilizio, Illemestri, Ilminaris, Impelia, Inikia, Intheänereon, Ionellza, Iongua, Iophroster, Iptameela, Irgasia, Iskarnia, Iuzator, Ixiosyne, Izmirodon, Jachoriax, Jakanuin, Jalanochlan, Jaleduin, Jandrebliash, Jaralectan, Jarchesmadis, Javethiel, Jelanjaztor, Jemalkhiri, Jemarixtesen, Jirchesmiod, Juaxmanar, Jurelisma, Kadarion, Kagilia, Kalenizin, Kalienlod, Kalpalanin, Kandathama, Kanthamio, Karania, Kardamordax, Karethezam, Karisempatur, Karriasal, Karthassily, Kastrevelda, Katanmaral, Kemeroxel, Keolotrest, Keremelar, Kerisiar, Khalatulajax, Khrysarlion, Kikianik, Kiralizur, Kishidega, Koquilgion, Kryslaria, Lalarian, Lamamelis, Lamdiraka, Lamirila, Lamotridac, Lantessorax, Larasajan, Laschiantria, Lauaxeta, Laziarlan, Lemesprie, Leoniax, Lepeduin, Lialasia, Liquilioss, Lirrissia, Locramaël, Ludurafet, Luithiole, Lyzalian, Lyzeoldir, Maheriel, Majezreäl, Malabderas, Malantiggar, Malasteon, Malevila, Malyremeth, Manariasc, Maranduax, Marassumar, Maresedin, Marillia, Marzaranax, Mathranislom, Maudrosnia, Mayulisas, Medricaeldo, Meliabrak, Meliadoul, Melidium, Meliofard, Melismondé, Melkandoro, Melozathel, Melusinnia, Mereniax, Meresinapt, Mermiculex, Metebelvis, Mianjira, Milinderra, Mirelassar, Mirianis, Mirtagarkarit, Moäthyalond, Momelsia, Morasina, Morciana, Moriliem, Morilioth, Muathazaglimid, Mylakhrion, Myrraxion, Myrristica, Naburios, Nanieroj, Narasia, Narjiona, Narragazkara, Narzelduin, Nemmaridus, Nempifermal, Nerovius, Nevalrimyr, Nevinlemnus, Nichoriam, Nimrathelet, Nissebaral, Niziliom, Nohbirrian, Octramadus, Ohirial, Okarbia, Okpralio, Olemerrin, Oloscendivarn, Onnurian, Opacalia, Orathiris, Orbicritis, Orialex, Oriastus, Orissanat, Ormallivir, Ormeria, Orrizia, Orroptio, Orthaxifer, Orviliach, Otolvian, Pactinasa, Palzyriax, Panaxcrador, Panthioleed, Paolalian, Pelemurto, Pelluxia, Pemelojurg, Pemulinaan, Perjauruan, Phayzelobion, Phomechelian, Phorissital, Piartamisk, Pirouëtta, Pluzemelar, Pomivarnoën, Pyrvinrian, Quanamelis, Quarlusian, Quelidia, Quelizantor, Querrulian, Quetradendith, Rajanthesina, Rakanamet, Ramantasset, Ranasceleb, Rasanathan, Rathelemen, Ravannifer, Reondoresin, Rhazazarak, Rhiadirask, Roxifalcor, Rozalroäth, Ruälia, Rudliptalin, Rufomella, Rulinian, Runevara, Ruzultrejest, Rylissilin, Saboorakel, Sadonakai, Saegdondakhar, Salletifian, Sandurion, Sanoreya, Sapelintir, Sarantimar, Sarathia, Sarpemetheän, Sarrabhluil, Sartenia, Saterbia, Scarliherin, Scoramanté, Semnegarius, Serejarand, Seremnaria, Seriastis, Serilia, Seriona, Shadarabar, Sharadjelamir, Sharajamar, Shelarinisse, Shelmorian, Sireelia, Sirezvia, Siriena, Sirulia, Sorolonex, Soromyrium, Sorosilmar, Sphallurian, Sreltaneema, Sulparia, Suularaba, Sylixia, Tallosia, Tamarien, Tapromethyna, Tarachien, Taralian, Tarsmiria, Tasambekeer,Tayenias, Telaswiral, Telaznemor, Temilion, Teniliak, Tercyrian, Thetalia, Thorosiaz, Tiaskelu, Tifalius, Tinzlactiash, Tiriala, Tirunriyek, Tivamtemar, Toraxoran, Torellian, Tormosian, Trystaria, Tsaliveren, Tsardatsira, Tuivoreth, Ugalius, Uguesilar, Uirugan, Ulakrugir, Ulkarien, Ullibunda, Ultharnarath, Umasdalen, Umicia, Unaramand, Unlasnulkai, Unorrehod, Unuvia, Upalumo, Uraösin, Uttosembuluz, Uxulinak, Valarindio, Valarion, Valaronai, Valeauviej, Varcassian, Veladamar, Velorian, Venzafurome, Vercerenos, Veridia, Vialora, Vilcarien, Vimbrodelthion, Vincarian, Virunia, Vistramisorn, Vreniriab, Vruthalidrom, Vyjeremanx, Vyrania, Werzamerand, Wiernamal, Wrosceltiar, Wyjezinelb, Xacuahatl, Xaeximinar, Xalaibisad, Xalisuri, Xaralien, Xaralyna, Xarilia, Xasseldasene, Xavanimar, Xemelenos, Xilvemzarad, Xiomriest, Xorlanterond, Xorosia, Yamidala, Yamovelhas, Yannavalka, Yarbithresin, Yarmidrian, Yavilana, Yazarrahaj, Yetlioro, Yormanien, Yssarion, Yzaniva, Zabarianx, Zaharsian, Zalrevliaf, Zanzarathool, Zatakruan, Zaulizanir, Zavalliar, Zavalniax, Zekundaloth, Zekundemar, Zelissinfra, Zelobindio, Ziandela, Zicarecem, Zimenaechu, Zofelliara, Zoramatoth, Zulaaria, Zuralion, Zuruxeno, Zuzusilmar, Zwimolio, Zwyäclemon, Zyrissalantisar Strange Syllables These syllable tables are meant not to be names in themselves particular pattern: Am-Ghaz, Sheb-Yi, and so on. Hyphenating (although you could use some for that purpose), but to be used the syllables of a name makes us say it with multiple stresses; to construct names of a certain character. They can be combined this is arresting because we are used to a single stress per name. as you wish, or added as a prefix or suffix to other names in this Two or three hyphenated harsh syllables, like Ar-Jax-Krag, is a book - as honorifics, or name-parts to differentiate between fitting style for a barbaric species. groups or expand the potential names in a set. To get a random syllable from a table, roll d% and cross-A pair of smooth syllables could make a suitable name for an reference the row and column on the 10’s and 1’s dice. For exotic eastern city, say, Oom Yath. Maybe the lost people of the instance a roll of 42 on the Harsh table gives Jeg. plateau have names that mix two syllables of different types in a Table 5-2: Strange Syllables Harsh  D% 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  10 Ad  Ak  Ar  Ax  Bact  Chog  Chud  Dar  Derg  Dir  20 Dra  Drix  Dutt  Erd  Gid  Glak  Gna  Gner  Gnild  Gog  30 Grakk  Grux  Guz  Hatr  Hauk  Hdra  Hex  Hust  Ig  Jask  40 Jax  Jeg  Ka  Kag  Kank  Khur  Klut  Kolch  Kon  Kor  50 Kosk  Kra  Krag  Kru  Lak  Lat  Lig  Lut  Makt  Mlok  60 Mulk  Naax  Nabd  Nek  Nex  Nid  Nox  Nub  Nud  Nux  70 Ok  Org  Osk  Pec  Pent  Plag  Pyx  Rek  Sark  Ska  80 Skeg  Skek  Skut  Strak  Sut  Szat  Tchad  Telg  Ter  Thauc  90 Tog  Tok  Tor  Urg  Usk  Ust  Ux  Vax  Vekk  Vog  00 Vurg  Xag  Xeg  Xug  Yawg  Yed  Zet  Zixt  Zok  Zuk  Neutral  D% 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  10 Ald  Arn  Asth  Ba  Baad  Bal  Banth  Bhur  Bol  Chun  20 Del  Din  Djal  Dloth  Dole  Dom  Dor  Drul  Duhl  Fen  30 Fer  Fith  Flar  Fren  Gaw  Ghaz  Gho  Golm  Gren  Han  40 Harj  Harl  Harn  Hath  Haz  Henj  Hsar  Ilb  Irb  Jad  50 Jos  Kan  Kiz  Kho  Krell  Kull  Mar  Mox  Na  Nal  60 Nath  Nau  Naz  Neb  Nen  Nind  Nuth  Ob  Orn  Pand  70 Pulm  Ran  Saad  Sharn  Sheb  Shenx  Shup  Silch  Snal  Taw  80 Teh  Tev  Thad  Thang  Tild  Tine  Treen  Trell  Trogh  Trilt  90 Trul  Tsanth  Tscho  Tsith  Tu  Tul  Ur  Weft  Weng  Xal  00 Xin  Xun  Yahb  Yan  Yest  Yos  Za  Zilx  Zon  Zor  Smooth  D% 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  10 Am  Az  Eesh  Ell  Erm  Esh  Hoom  Hu  Ith  Izz  20 Leng  Lesh  Lim  Lith  Lomb  Loal  Loor  Lor  Lull  Mai  30 Mal  Mo  Mong  Mor  Morm  Moth  Moy  Mu  Mul  Mung  40 Murr  Nam  Neesh  Om  Ong  Oob  Oom  Oor  Ooth  Orth  50 Oth  Phal  Phol  Rhan  Rohm  Ru  Ruum  Ruz  Sarm  Sha  60 Shai  Shan  Shar  Shim  Sho  Shol  Shoth  Sile  Smuu  Soom  70 Soor  Su  Suun  Syth  Thaa  Thal  Thay  Theem  Thir  Thom  80 Thule  Thuu  Um  Uth  Vehm  Vesh  Vho  Vil  Vith  Vooz  90 Voth  Voum  Vur  Wush  Xool  Yah  Yath  Ye  Yi  Yoh  00 Yom  Yoth  Yu  Zem  Zha  Zhai  Zil  Zo  Zoi  Zuul  Various  D% 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  10 An  Asf  Atht  Bau  Bel  Besh  Boa  Chiv  Dal  Darth  20 Dith  Dos  Drau  Drax  Dro  Elb  Faer  Faerl  Ferz  Flaj  30 Foum  Ful  Fuln  Gath  Gen  Ghi  Ghul  Goch  Gul  Ight  40 Inth  Jabb  Jal  Jiv  Karg  Khal  Koh  Kraa  Kyor  Larn  50 Leil  Lek  Lerr  Leth  Lil  Liv  List  Lol  Luss  Luth  60 Misk  Mour  Myrrh  Nlaa  Nluu  Oast  Pan  Pancz  Pav  Pertz  70 Quin  Rath  Reen  Rew  Rorn  Sarn  Sind  Skex  Slaur  Snik  80 Sund  Tal  Tam  Tau  Tende  Thig  Trip  Tsai  Ul  Vaed  90 Val  Vel  Veld  Vitze  Vos  Vree  Wyx  Xan  Xem  Xin  00 Xirth  Yimp  Yisb  Yisg  Yorn  Yss  Zent  Zhar  Zorr  Zuze  Various sentient and therefore name-bearing fantastic species are stock archetypes in any fantasy campaign, and often in science fiction settings as well. It is expected that they have certain qualities, and names that reflect them. Such names, using sound to hint at nature, are suggested for a few manlike, animal-like, and monstrous beings. Example species are from myth, fiction, the Lejendary Adventure™, and other games. You can build upon the tables and lists to create names for other species. Alter as you need and experiment as you wish! (Reverse the odd prefix and suffix, use a pair of prefixes together, add or lose syllables, mix lists, add your own inventions, and so on.) The species are split into manlike and other races for conve.nience. Only personal names are considered. Fantasy races tend not to use family names, instead using bynames (Salarra of the Mystic Wood), clan affiliations (Grobglud of the Pierced Tongue tribe), or titles (Andramalax the Magnificent). Use the Epithets section if extra designations are needed. Manlike Races The manlike species are sometimes called demi-humans, humanoids, or humanalia. They include goblins, orcs, ogres, giants, dwarves, gnomes, elves, nymphs, faerykind, and near-humans such as Neanderthals. The creation tables and lists are ordered loosely by general type: the Vile and the Crude (tomorrow’s soap opera today!), Primitive, Doughty and Homely, Fair and Noble, Faerykind, Nymphs and Sirens, Evil but Elegant, and Malevolent. Vile and Crude Orcs, goblins, ogres, evil giants, and similar scum are simply named with disagreeable sounds. If we assume that their natures, speech, and name patterns are akin, then hierarchical tables based on size can cover many breeds. To create a name, roll twice on the appropriate table and string the parts together. Use the Small table for goblins, the Medium one for orcs, and the Large one for ogres and giants; assign similar species to a table based on size. For intermediate types, use two tables. For instance, a slave orc or greater goblin might have one Small and one Medium element in its name, in any order. A greater orc (or ogrillon or oaf) might have one Large and one Medium element. To get a random element from a table, roll d% and cross-reference the row and column on the 10’s and 1’s dice. For instance, rolls for a goblin of 91 + 79 on the Small table give snig + rok = Snigrok. A few pairs of rolls on the Medium table give Ugbash, Dogrot, and Muzgash (all names orcs might endorse with: “Wicked! Extreme!”). Table 5-3: Vile & Crude  Small (Goblins in d20, Trollkin in the LA game)  D%  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  10  ach  adz  ak  ark  az  balg  bilg  blid  blig  blok  20  blot  bolg  bot  bug  burk  dokh  drik  driz  duf  flug  30  ga  gad  gag  gah  gak  gar  gat  gaz  ghag  ghak  40  git  glag  glak  glat  glig  gliz  glok  gnat  gog  grak  50  grat  guk  hig  irk  kak  khad  krig  lag  lak  lig  60  likk  loz  luk  mak  maz  miz  mub  nad  nag  naz  70  nig  nikk  nogg  nok  nukk  rag  rak  rat  rok  shrig  80  shuk  skrag  skug  slai  slig  slog  sna  snag  snark  snat  90  snig  snik  snit  sog  spik  stogg  tog  urf  vark  yad  00  yagg  yak  yark  yarp  yig  yip  zat  zib  zit  ziz  Medium (Orcs)  D%  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  10  ag  aug  bad  bag  bakh  bash  baz  blag  brag  brog  20  bruz  dag  dakk  darg  dob  dog  drab  dug  dur  gash  30  ghaz  glakh  glaz  glob  glol  gluf  glur  gnarl  gnash  gnub  40  gob  gokh  gol  golk  gor  grakh  grash  grath  graz  grot  50  grub  grud  gud  gut  hag  hakk  hrat  hrog  hrug  khag  60  khar  krag  krud  lakh  lash  lob  lub  lud  luf  luk  70  molk  muk  muz  nar  ogg  olg  rag  rash  rogg  rorg  80  rot  rud  ruft  rug  rut  shad  shag  shak  shaz  shog  90  skar  skulg  slur  snar  snorl  snub  snurr  sod  stulg  thak  00  trog  ug  umsh  ung  uth  yakh  yash  yob  zahk  zog  Large (Ogres) D%  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  10  argh  barsh  bog  burz  dof  drok  drub  drug  dub  dug  20  dul  dursh  dush  duz  faug  fug  ghakh  ghar  ghash  ghol  30  ghor  ghukk  ghul  glub  glud  glug  gluz  gom  grad  grash  40  grob  grogg  grok  grol  gru  gruf  gruk  grul  grum  grumf  50  grut  gruz  guhl  gulv  hai  hrung  hur  hurg  kai  klob  60  krod  kug  kulk  kur  lorg  lug  lukh  lum  lurz  lush  70  luz  makh  maug  molg  mud  mug  mul  murk  muzd  nakh  80  narg  obb  rolb  rukh  ruz  sharg  shruf  shud  shug  shur  90  shuz  slub  slud  slug  snad  snog  thrag  thulk  thurk  trug  00  ulg  ur  urd  urgh  urkh  uz  yug  yur  zud  zug  Add or remove letters between elements if it makes the name sounds better. If a name doesn’t work, or just for variety (1 in 20), use one element, altering it if it needs bolstering. If the element starts and ends with a consonant, precede it with i, a, o, or u (I-krud, A-zog, O-gek, U-thul). Otherwise tack an optional l or r, and b, g, h, k, or z, to the vowel end (Br-az, H-umsh, Z-argh; Sna-rz, Gru-lg). Vile and crude species have primitive social structures, and apart from military ranks, are likely to have few titles, perhaps chief, boss, and shaman. Use either those terms or an approximation in their own guttural speech - for instance, G’rukth, G’rut, and G’rak, or for a big-cheese shaman, G’ruyhir. Title-holders may instead add a prefix (for instance, G’ or Guh) and an extra part to their name. These beings may be magically created in breeding vats or pits to serve as minions of evil. If in your world they not only have sexes, but the sexes can be told apart, you may want distinct names for females. If so, just add -ah, -ay, -gah, -ghy, -y, or -ya (roll d6) to the end of generated names for female versions. More Giants Giants can sometimes be more dim than dire. For giants too thick to be fully evil, try mixing ogrish elements with those from the Comical Names section, or consider the Primitive table. More intelligent giants might have names more like those of surrounding races. Giants from Norse myth include Baugir, Belir, Bergelmir, Bolthorn, Fjalar, Fornjotnr, Gymir, Hrungnir, Hugir, Mimir, Surtr,Thiassir,Thrudgelmir,Thrymr,Ymir; and females Angrboda, Bestla, Gullveigr, Hagr, Iarnsaxa. Those from Greek myth include Agrios, Alkyoneus, Anax, Antaeus, Briareus, Enkelados, Ephialtes, Eutytos, Gration, Gyges, Hippolytos, Klytios, Kotos, Mimos, Pallas, Polybotes, Porphyrion, Rhoteus, Thoas, Thoön, Tityos. Primitive Neanderthals and subhuman races are usually crude rather than bad. We want rough, thick speech, but different names from goblins and all. To do this, we use some two_syllable elements, a less harsh sound, and name patterns with multiple stresses. To generate a name for a primitive caveman type, first determine the number of elements in the name. For a female roll d6, for a male roll d10: one (1-3), two (4-8), or three (9-0). Then choose and hyphenate the parts from the Primitive table. To get a random element from the table, roll d% and cross-reference the row and column on the 10’s and 1’s dice. Add to the start or end of a female name one of the following elements (roll d8): doh, rei, mih, fah, soh, lah, tih, daoh (the females sing, you see… but the names still work). For example, Giree, Heh-Ob, and Bul-Suhi-Yih would be males, Heh-Fah, Khaz-Peh-Tih, and Rei-Naoh would be females. Table 5-4: Primitive D%  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  10  ahg  baod  beegh  bohr  bul  buli  burh  buri  chah  dhak  20  digri  dum  eghi  ehm  faogh  feehm  ghad  ghah  gham  ghan  30  ghat  ghaw  ghee  ghish  ghug  giree  gonkh  goun  goush  guh  40  gunri  hah  hani  haogh  hatoo  heghi  heh  hoo  houm  hree  50  ig  kham  khan  khaz  khee  khem  khuri  logh  lugh  maoh  60  meh  mogh  mouh  mugh  naoh  naroo  nham  nuh  ob  oli  70  orf  ough  ouh  peh  pogh  pugh  puh  quagi  rahoo  rhoo  80  rifoo  ronkh  rouk  saom  saori  shehi  shlo  shom  shour  shul  90  snaoh  suhi  suth  teb  thom  toudh  tregh  tuhli  ub  urush  00  ush  vuh  wah  wuh  yaum  yauth  yeeh  yih  yuh  zham  Doughty and Homely Homely Dwarves, gnomes, and halflings are solid citizens of many D 1 2 3 4 Male Fem fantasy worlds, down to earth in both character and height. 01 ad blanc falc mil ald a Typically, Norse names suit dwarves and Medieval English 02 adel boff ferd mung ard a names suit halflings. The tables below create names similar to 03 adr bomb frob od ert a the expected type. Gnomes seem to be between the two, so use 04 ail bram fulb oth fast a bits of each table. There are 60 prefixes for the doughty dwarves, 05 alb bung gam sab o a 48 for the homely halflings; males and females have distinct 06 alm droc hald sam o ia suffixes. 07 amb drog ham seg o ia 08 band durl hasc serl o ice To generate a dwarf name, roll d20 for a prefix (and another die to 09 bard emm hod tob o ily choose column 1, 2, or 3), and d20 for a suffix, either male or 10 ben erd hug wan old ina female to match the bearer’s sex. For a halfling name, roll d12 for 11 biff ern iv wig win wina a prefix (and another die to choose column 1, 2, 3, or 4), and d12 12 bild ever mark wyd wise wisa for a suffix, either male or female to match the bearer’s sex. For a gnome name, use a doughty prefix with a homely suffix (1 in 8 For a dwarf name, add or remove letters between elements if it the other way around), adding an ‘l’ after a prefix ending in a makes it sound better. If a name doesn’t work, or just for variety vowel. For example, for a male gnome, we roll 19(2) on the (1 in 8), use the prefix alone, altering it if you wish: if it ends with doughty table and 11 on the homely table to get horn + win = a vowel, add an -r, else add an -i (or -ra and -a for females). Hornwin. For his fiancée, we roll 1(3) and 1 to get Nala (after adding an l). To make halflings homelier, give them rustic English family names. Gnomes could do likewise, or perhaps use Scottish surnames (if they have clans) to keep them distinct. Either raceTable 5-5: Doughty & Homely might use a few rustic family names as personal names, too. Doughty Dwarves from Norse myth include Ai,An,Andvari, Annar, Austi,D 1 2 3 Male Fem Austri, Bafur, Berling, Bifur, Bombor, Brokk, Dain, Delling,01 bal durn na bor bis Dolgthvari, Dori, Draupnir, Dufr, Duneyr, Durathror, Durin,02 bord from nor din da Dvalin, Eikinskjaudi, Eitri, Fal, Fili, Fith, Fjalar, Frosti, Fundin,03 born fror nord in dis Ginnar, Gloin, Grerr, Har, Haur, Hornbori, Ingi, Jari, Kili, Lit, Loni,04 brim fuld orm in dis Mjodvitnir, Moin, Nain, Nali, Nar, Nibelung, Nidi, Nipingr, Nordri,05 brod fund skand in dis Nyi, Nyr, Oinn, Ori, Radsuithr, Radsvid, Regin, Rekk, Sjarr,06 brokk gim skond ir dis Skandar, Skirfir, Sudri, Thekkr, Thorin, Thror, Thrurinn, Veigur,07 brom glo storn li ga Vestri, Vig, Virvir,Vithur,Yingi.08 bru gond strom li hild 09 bur gord stur lin is Fair and Noble10 burl gorm sturl nir is The lios alfar, or light elves, of Norse myth appear in various11 da grad sund or lif game systems as elves, alfs, ilfs, wylfs, and so on. For the fair12 dal grim thor ri lind folk, we use mostly clear, fluid, and clean sounds to produce13 dolg grod thorn ri lis refined, pleasant names. The table below lets you generate14 dor grom thra rin na names for two similar communities (races, clans) of such beings.15 dorm guld thro rok nis There are two sets of prefixes, and males and females have16 dral gund throl ror ris distinct suffixes. If you wish, use one set (A or B) of 40 prefixes17 drim gur thror rur rith on the table for a particular group, perhaps for high and wood18 drom hord thru vi run elves, or ilfs and wylfs.19 dur horn thrur vir run 20 durm hra thund vor vis To generate an elf name, choose a prefix + middle + suffix, or (1 in 6) prefix + suffix from the table. Roll d20 for a prefix (and another die to choose column 1 or 2, or just alternate between them). Then d20 for any middle, and d20 for a suffix, either male or female to match the bearer’s sex. For example, working with group A, we roll 6(2), 6, and 2 for a female to get lir + as + el = Lirasel. More rolls get her maid Ganamiel, and some male friends Celendir and Gilthalion. Table 5-6: Fair & Noble Table 5-7: Small & Spry D  A1  A2  B1  B2  Mid  Male  Fem  D  1  2  3  Male  Fem  01  an  im  aeg  lith  ad  ad  edel  01  bris  iphil  opal  bik  dee  02  ar  in  ael  maeg  al  dan  el  02  cryl  ispel  oris  brix  kiss  03  cal  ir  aer  mind  am  del  eth  03  elsi  istle  orif  frell  la  04  car  ist  aes  mith  an  dil  ian  04  ember  jat  peri  fret  liss  05  cel  lar  aeth  nith  ar  dir  iel  05  esk  jost  sarm  kin  mee  06  cir  lir  bel  rael  as  fal  iel  06  feris  jus  sprin  mist  niss  07  clar  lor  ber  rind  eb  ion  ien  07  frimi  lirra  stith  mit  nyx  08  el  mar  cael  saer  ed  ion  loth  08  gan  mali  tansi  rix  ree  09  elb  mel  caer  sar  el  lad  mir  09  glink  mink  tirra  tross  riss  10  er  mer  cris  seld  em  las  rial  10  hal  mirra  trump  twik  sa  11  erl  mir  ear  ser  en  lin  rian  11  hel  mistle  whis  win  tiss  12  est  nim  elth  sil  er  nar  riel  12  hist  ninka  zando  zisk  ynx  13  far  nin  eol  silm  es  or  riel  14  fin  nir  faer  sind  ev  orn  rien  15  gal  ral  fean  thael  il  ras  ril  Nymphs and Sirens  16  gan  ran  find  thaer  in  rior  roël  Nymphs, nature spirits of sundry sorts in the form of  17  gar  rel  ith  thal  ir  rod  sil  comely young women, are frequent in Greek myth. Sirens  18  gel  ril  laeg  thel  ol  rond  wë  looked nice too but used their sweet song to lure sailors to  19  gil  rin  lend  ther  thal  ros  wen  shipwreck. Most female Ancient Greek names can be used  20  ilm  rim  lind  thir  thon  thir  wen  for either; a few sample names from myth are given for  quick reference.  This table has more options, so needs slightly more care. When Nymphs:Adrasteia, Aegina, Amaltheia, Ankhiale, Arethusa,rolling up groups, it helps you stay in the right column if you roll Asterodeia, Bakkhe, Bromie, Daphne, Doris, Dryope, Dynamene,up the prefixes and write them down, then add the middles, then Ekho, Elektra, Erato, Euryanassa, Eurythemista, Idaea, Io, Iynx,add the suffixes for each sex. Remove double letters, and add, a, Kallirrhoë, Kallisto, Kalyke, Kalypso, Klytia, Kreusa, Linos,e, l, or r between any parts if it makes the name sound better. You Makris, Nysamay want occasionally (1 in 12) to allow some crossover between groups and sexes, or add in an extra prefix or suffix Sirens:Aglaope, Aglaophonos, Leukosia, Ligeia, Molpe,somewhere. Parthenopë, Peisinoë, Raidne, Teles, Thelxepeia, Thelxiope Faerykind Evil but Elegant The small, magical races of faerie, and this includes the LA game The svart alfar, or dark elves, of Norse myth have been Kobold race, should have spry names. The tables below give developed in various game systems into foes with finesse: drow, examples that might do for pixies, sprites, ellyllons, and so on. dockalf, huldra. For these we need refined names with a sinister, There are 36 prefixes, and males and females have distinct shadowy touch. The table below lets you generate names for suffixes. To generate a name, roll d12 for a prefix (and another die two similar communities (races, clans) of such beings. There are to choose column 1, 2, or 3), and d12 for a suffix, either male or two sets of prefixes, and males and females have distinct female to match the bearer’s sex. For example, on the first table, suffixes. If you wish, use one set (A or B) of 40 prefixes on the we roll 9(2) and 4 for a male to get riff + ando = Riffando; another table for a particular group. roll gets his sister Flissamer. From the other table, we get Jattross and Minkla. To generate a dark elf name, choose a prefix + middle + suffix, or (1 in 6) prefix + suffix from the table. Roll d20 for a prefix (and Table 5-7: Small & Spry another die to choose column 1 or 2, or just alternate between them). Then d20 for any middle, and d20 for a suffix, either male D 1 2 3 Male Fem or female to match the bearer’s sex. For example, working with 01 dex gliss tink aldo afer group A, we roll 14(1), 5, and 15 for a female to get jer + id + ra = 02 flax goss tiss allo amer Jeridra. More rolls get Suspiria and Nilith, and for some male 03 flim hex trill amo anel allies, Morralim, Ruisuld, and Jerennaz. 04 fliss liss trist ando arel 05 flix min twill aroll asti 06 foss misk twiss aron efer 07 frisk raff twisp asto enti 08 friss ress twix endo erel 09 gess riff weft eroll ifer 10 glan rill wesk eron imer 11 glax saff winn esto inel 12 glim shim wisp ondo irel Table 5-8: Sinister Table 5-9: Nasty D  A1  A2  B1  B2  Mid  Male  Fem  D  1  2  3  Male  Fem  01  bal  myr  bur  olg  dyl  ald  bra  01  aag  karg  ulthu  arag  anil  02  ber  ne  chor  on  el  eld  dra  02  alur  khark  urz  bru  bau  03  char  nel  col  or  en  id  dril  03  arak  krau  uti  drul  diu  04  de  nil  dol  org  er  ild  ene  04  az  kriv  uznid  inu  dusla  05  div  no  dor  oth  id  ird  hel  05  azik  kuaz  virn  lank  giu  06  dri  nyl  drom  pan  il  lim  ia  06  bral  kudu  vlaaj  lun  ija  07  dul  rel  dur  pel  is  naz  il  07  braz  luri  vlag  lurr  izil  08  eil  rha  en  por  lav  nid  iln  08  bruh  mulk  vlash  lurug  jiul  09  ek  ru  er  sek  len  nil  ira  09  draan  nau  vluk  nal  lihyl  10  im  sab  gon  sol  lev  nim  istra  10  drulg  nid  vluzak  rul  lin  11  ins  sin  gul  sun  lin  red  ith  11  guz  ninj  vraz  ruzuk  lyrr  12  ist  sul  jend  ten  liv  rid  iza  12  haug  nul  vulk  salk  nalu  13  jeg  sus  kil  thal  pel  rim  lin  13  idru  nym  xau  sul  rhyl  14  jer  tel  lul  tor  pir  riv  na  14  jhaal  ranag  xid  suruk  rula  15  jys  tul  mab  torm  ra  ul  ra  15  jid  rilthu  xul  ull  skiu  16  lil  ver  maz  vek  ral  uld  rin  16  jiu  ruk  xuraj  undak  sula  17  mar  vil  mol  vol  ril  vid  sil  17  jur  rulk  zauv  uvik  ulla  18  mer  vir  nor  vor  rin  vim  tra  18  jurg  ruz  zug  xulg  xhiu  19  mez  vril  noth  yel  sin  vir  vra  19  jurz  saag  zuldu  zu  zihyl  20  mor  yas  ol  yol  syl  viz  vril  20  kaaz  skaur  zuv  zuk  ziu  suffix. Only male suffixes are shown; female dragons usually addThis table has more options, so needs slightly more care. When -is to the male form, but bazius becomes bazia, and -os endingsrolling up groups, it helps you stay in the right column if you roll become -ossa. Minor dragons and related species might use theup the prefixes and write them down, then add the middles, then same or similar prefixes, but less draconic endings (perhapsadd the suffixes for each sex. faery or nasty, depending on type). Malevolent For example, we roll 11(2) and 18 for a male to get lazulo +Some races in your world may be so cruel as to make dark elves zuthrax = Lazulozuthrax; another roll gets Barabazius. Femaleseem kind - perhaps half-demons, ulfs, urls, or alien torturers. versions are Lazulozuthraxis and Barabazia. Use the table below for names of rank malice. There are 60 prefixes, and males and females have distinct suffixes. To generate a name (seeTable 5-9, roll d20 for a prefix (and another Table 5-10: Draconic die to choose column 1, 2, or 3), and d20 for a suffix, either male or female to match the bearer’s sex. For example, we roll 10(2) and D1 2 3 Male 14 for a male to get nid + suruk = Nidsuruk. More rolls get us 01 abra har phrixu bazius Jiuuvik, and the pair’s mates, Rukulla and Alurrhyl. 02 adastra helio porphyro boros 03 adra huro pyra bradax 04 anca iul rhada calchax Other Races 05 andra jalan rhe cordax Name-bearing species in fantasy and science fiction can take 06 arag jarzem rhodo lagon any form, from talking animals to human-animal composites to 07 archo jazra rau malax pure monsters. The following tables provide suitable names for 08 atra jurga sar mandros such beings, or elements that you can combine with names or 09 bar keruxa sarcu manthys syllables elsewhere to get suitable names. The creation tables 10 bara kralka sarda mordax and lists are ordered by general type: Dragons, Serpents, 11 beru lazulo scarva nadral Servants of Darkness, Servants of Light, Animal-like Creatures. 12 bhakri majuri sidereo nalux 13 bia malacho skhia neriax Dragons 14 bra mar sulchru phylax 15 brado marmora tchalcedo voraxThe eastern dragon is magical, intelligent, often benign, and 16 brima melkar tchazar vorunglikely to have an oriental name. The western dragon, or drake, is 17 cadra orgra trocho xenormore prone to ravaging the countryside. The name-bearing 18 chro ouro vra zuthraxdragons of legend are mighty and majestic (albeit arrogant and 19 chryso perido zalar zzebraxgreedy). For a suitably impressive sound, some classical roots 20 glau phoro zerul zzemalhelp the mix. Use the table below for a few dragonish names. There are 60 prefixes. To generate a name, roll d20 for a prefix (and another die to choose column 1, 2, or 3), and d20 for a Serpents Servants of Darkness The serpents here are demonic supernatural beings from the The infernal hordes of evil, demons, devils, onis, and so on, are Ancient Egyptian underworld and like creatures appear in other often met with by player characters trying to thwart their plots ancient mythologies. (A few of these were alternative names for and predations. Some name types are suggested for these foul the same serpents.) fiends, using ugly sounds. The elements are divided roughly into Soft, Dull, and Sharp groupings, based on endings; the Serpents:Ab-esh-imy-duat, Ab-she, Ab-ta, Akeneh, Akhen, Am, titles are meant to describe a creature’s nature as well as the Aman, Ami-Hemf, Anapef, Ankhi, Antaf, Ap, Apap, Apep, Apepi, element’s sound (if that suits your game system). Apophis, Ash-hrau, Bath, Beteshu, Bitje, Hau, Hau-hra, Heka, Hekret, Hemheti, Hemth,Henti, Iuba, Iubani, Kara-anememti, For minor beings, a single element from a suitable table will do Kenememti, Khak-ab, Kharru, Khepri, Khermuti, Khesef-hra, for a name. To create a name for medial and major ones, roll for Mehen, Nai, Neha-hra, Nesht, Pepi, Qerneru, Qettu, Saatet-ta, an element each from two different tables and string the parts Sau, Sebv-ent-seba, Sekhem-hra, Senenahemthet, Serem-taui, together. There are six combinations. You can roll randomly for Sesi, Sesshes, Setchek, Shemti, Sheta, Sisi, Tcheser-tep, Teka-which to use, assign the last element to a creature based on its hra, Tepi, Tethru, Tetu, Turrupa, Uai, Ufa, Unti nature, or use particular combinations for certain types of beings: one for devils, one for fiends, one for general abyss-dwellers, and so on. To get a random element from a particular table, roll d% and cross-reference the row and column on the 10’s and 1’s dice. Table 5-11: Infernal D6 Combination Examples Variants 1 Soft + Dull Rizboaj, Szulzug Ob-vulobb, Hrizvoag 2 Soft + Sharp Azazakk, Grogoch Rizuz-mox, Saaridek 3 Dull + Soft Frubduoi, Nyogtha Jub-vaathiss, Klegdrobla 4 Dull + Sharp Yeegnilv, Zubmuth Hrudjiul, Iug-ndolu 5 Sharp + Soft Nirrthalu, Ralkkul Akkuzhuu, Vooz-soaz 6 Sharp + Dull Nythlaug, Hraxurb Blikrrizzch, Yimp-gub Soft & Spongy D%  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  10  alu  alz  avu  azaz  baph  baz  cha  fraz  garl  garu  20  gla  hra  mal  nahu  nal  nasu  paz  raz  tha  thalu  30  bre  dre  gel  gle  gre  hez  rez  rezu  tze  gzi  40  hriz  hzi  idrau  itha  ixu  lilu  riz  yil  dromu  gro  50  lol  moz  olth  oxu  sco  tho  bu  bul  buz  chru  60  dru  ghu  gura  guz  hruz  huz  kul  lurhz  muz  ru  70  shu  ssu  szul  thu  ulchru  utu  vul  zu  zul  baal  80  ghaa  kraa  phaal  raal  saa  bial  oazo  soaz  ruaz  gya  90  yaa  bael  nee  ziel  yee  aiaz  shai  reoz  duoi  drau  00  ghau  glau  mau  sau  tzau  iuz  juu  rhuu  vuul  zuu  Dull & Heavy D% 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 10 agh alg barg chag ghad glab grag hrag kag kwarg 20 mag nalb sag tharg brelg dergh dregh drelb felg heg 30 kleg igg rigg blog drog grolb kolg krolg lolg mog 40 morg nog obb ogg olb rogg strog thog trob tzolg 50 vogt bub bulg druj durg frub fulg gub hrud hurg 60 jub julb nud nug nulb rung shub stug sug szug 70 trulg ulb urb vub vulb xub zub zug zugt aab 80 aag glaag haag naag raag boaj moab uag leegh yeb 90 yeeg aig yibb iog droog nyog aug baug daurg draug 00 gaub laug maug naug raug saug thaug iub iug ruug Sharp & Spiky D%  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  10  ach  akk  ash  azt  bahor  bar  bas  brax  charn  dak  20  hrax  lach  lazt  mat  nam  nazt  ralk  rhast  sark  slarv  30  tash  thak  thalur  thalk  vach  vap  dek  ech  fesh  gek  40  hrek  lech  met  ner  ter  blik  gith  igm  inax  irsch  50  kir  lis  lisk  lith  nilv  nirr  tlizit  bor  chon  goch  60  gor  goth  hoth  khor  kos  loch  lok  loth  moch  moth  70  noc  och  oth  rolk  roth  sot  soth  vrok  dun  gur  80  hun  luth  muth  nur  rutt  sut  sutt  szut  tur  urt  90  utuk  uzt  krych  nyth  slyth  gaan  xaas  boak  ruaak  yalm  00  haerx  iex  draum  gaur  glaur  rauk  saur  duum  nuur  ruun  Glue.Vowel (d10): u (1-3), o (4-5), i (6-7), a (8-9), e (0). Consonant (d6): z, y, v,r, l, j. Add letters between elements if it makes the name sounds To use two parts from the same table, choose them rather than better: use hellish glue (as in the table) of a vowel and rolling randomly, to avoid rhymes and too-similar sounds. Each consonant in whatever order works best. If a name isn’t quite table is arranged by initial vowels, with double vowels following right, try adding a hyphen to change the stress pattern. on. You can thus choose particular patterns of vowel sounds as desired for different species (perhaps combining this with ending Greater and high-ranking beasties will have a hyphenated title patterns as well). added as a prefix or suffix to their two-part name. Use a syllable from the strange syllables selection, or take a pair of letters from Servants of Light the name and use it or its reverse as a title (as in Ob-vulobb). The champions of good, angelic beings, devas, and so on, tend to be fewer and more potent than the hordlings of evil, and For more variety or specificity, try combining infernal elements player characters meet them less often. They are more likely to with those for other creatures, perhaps to fit particular attributes chat, though. They can appear in manlike form, but are often (toads for toad demons, slugs for slime devils, and so on). Mix winged, beings of pure light, and the like. A few names are with the Vile & Crude table for more rank-and-file hordlings. For suggested in the table below for such empyreal guardians, using human-like or elf-like demons and devils, use nasty and sinister clear, heroic sounds. table elements respectively; for more specific cultures (African, French, etc.), combine infernal parts with names and name There are 72 prefixes, and males and females have slightly elements from those cultures to make horrible hybrids. (This can different suffixes. To generate a name, roll d12 for a prefix (and d6 also serve to distinguish the sexes; otherwise use parts with i’s to choose the column) and d12 for a suffix. For example, we roll and l’s for females.) 12(1) and 11 for a male to get aran + athar = Aranathar; another roll gets Jalanath. Female versions are Aranereth and Jalaneth. Table 5-12: Empyreal D1 2 3 4 5 6 Male Fem 01 adan asan jasan palant sarnat valmar al el 02 adrast asarn jasarm palor solar valnar an en 03 alant astar javral raman talan valnor ar er 04 amad atar kalad ranal talar valon as es 05 aman atlan kalar ranar talas valor at et 06 amar avar kalas rasan talon vanar ath eth 07 amars avlant kalast ravan taran varal ath eth 08 amart avral kasal samar taval varam ath eth 09 ansam jalan katarn saran valant varan anth enth 10 arad jalkar kaval sarat valar varat athal eleth 11 aram jaran klaron sardan valdor vardar athar ereth 12 aran jasal palad sardar valkar voltar athas eseth If a name doesn’t work, or just for variety (1 in 12), use the prefix alone with a hyphenated title before it: Ar-, Sar-, Tar-, Var-; Jal-, Kal-, Pal-, Ral-, Tal- (choose one that doesn’t rhyme or alliterate with the prefix). For instance, we roll valar + ar: but don’t like the repeated ‘ar’, and thus choose a syllable to give the name Tal-Valar. You might also consider changing more non-title a’s to e’s for females. Animal-like Creatures Such beings might include intelligent animals and those in bipedal shape with animal attributes: lizard men, cat people, veshoges. A few lists of sounds are given here, loosely based on noises made by or associated with real creatures - character.istic cries; hissing or slithering sounds for reptiles; shrill, stridulent sounds for insects; bubbly noises for fish; slimy Lovecraftian squishes for molluscs. Just assign fitting ones as name elements for related beings. For a handful of names, they could be used alone, or two or three could be joined, perhaps hyphenated for stress. For greater numbers, and better names, combine them with suitable elements from other lists or tables. For example, D&D gnolls are based on hyenas: vicious sneaking scavengers with a distinctive giggling bark. Nasty laughing sounds provide suitable name elements. We might hyphenate pairs of these, or combine them with syllables from the Vile & Crude table (Small, for a higher pitch) to get a range of unpleasant names. On the other hand, a benign race could have typical sounds combined with pleasant prefixes or suffixes from other tables, in whatever order works best. You can of course add your own elements, reassign noises, and so on. If froggy croaking still fails somehow to distill the heroic dynamism of your swamp-hoppers, say, the rest of the book must suffice for choice. Epithet-like names may do: Goldenskin, Leapfar, Croakloud. Mammals Apes: bah, beh, boh, bou, buhn, dah, deh, dih, dou, duhm, eehm, engah, fou, gah, goh, gohm, guhn, gwah, hahn, hou, hwah, huh, jou, juh, kah, keh, keng, kihm, koh, kong, kreeh, lah, leh, mah, moh, mohm, muh, nah, nang, neh, nih, noh, nou, nyoh, ogh, ououh, roh, sah, sahm, soh, tah, tahm, toh, ugh, ungoh, wah, wuhn, yah, yoh, zeh, zih Rats: heek, histh, hisvit, ikit, itch, kree, kwee, kweev, kwik, neek, neekit, risik, skee, skiv, skree, skreek, skreelk, skrit, skriv, skwee, sneek, sneetch, snik, snikit, snitch, tchee, tchirik, weesk, wisth, wreek Squirrels: cheekk, chisk, chreej, eep, kishik, kreej, kwirrik, reep, thrisk, thriss Dogs: ahou, auw, bow, garoo, growl, gruff, gruwl, gurr, haroou, howgh, hraugh, hrahou, hroou, hruff, hrusk, kaiyah, kurr, laroou, lhaoouh, mutt, roagh, rriur, ruff, turr, tyke, whelp, yahoou, yaup, yelp, yiee, yike, yipe, yowh, yurr Hyenas: bree, breekah, cachinn, chikaha, chree, eehya, eengi, eheh, ghee, gheu, ghnee, ghree, grigri, hee, hyee, ihih, jheer, nyaha, snreeh, yeenh Cats: hrish, lirr, liss, lith, lyau, mau, meer, mew, miah, miau, mihr, mirhl, mirr, miu, purrh, saf, sash, serr, sfee, shah, sharr, shau, shee, sheer, shim, shurr, siyth, slif, swish, syau Great cats: gharrh, gher, grihm, guarrh, hleogh, hrargh, hroarr, hrugh, hruhr, hurrh, mhuurr, parrn, rhauhl, rrowrr, sabor, shaor, shargh, sheethah, taigh, thurr Horses: bree, brhou, bwihi, gnayah, hbraa, hihn, hnai, hnee, hneh, hniwhi, hnuy, houyhn, hree, hrihih, huhnim, hwin, ilhya, maiah, mhee, mhneh, mhwin, nhiwin, nyahey, nyihih, yhehi Pigs: borcht, borgha, bucht, ghreeh, glutth, gris, gruh, grunkh, hirkh, hirkha, hoinh, hoinkh, hortha, hrigh, hrogh, hrugh, huerg, hurnk, huunh, hween, mucht, oighn, pachn, pharho, pohr, shoat, snorgh, soueeh, squeeh, stoink, tuskh Arthropods Crustaceans: blak, blik, bluk, dikuk, karch, klakk, klatt, klik, kluk, klutt, kack, krak, krik, krub, kruk, krunk, kulch, kurch, kwik, kwuk, schrab, schrib, schruk, tchelk, tchub, tchuk, tchulk, tchunk, tchutt, tunch Spiders: grik, irrtt, kilss, kob, krig, krik, krip, ksob, lob, nik, sich, skik, skrik, snik, stig, spiv, stich, tchik, tigik, tik, vib, vip, vob, vrig, wib, wik, wiv, yib, yig, yob Insects: chirr, chirrk, hrikk, kikeek, kirrik, kizz, kree, kreex, krekk, krich, kutch, kzirr, rikik, rritz, rrizzch, shikirr, skeetz, skirr, skisk, skrak, skrix, skut, strid, strix, tchik, thrih, thrix, tzirch, tzuk, tzurr Molluscs Octopus: chlugh, gohlb, ghoch, ghoth, globb, gloth, grish, grush, mieuch, mnelsh, ogh, ough, phlem, phlish, shgor, shob, shog, shulb, slough, squelgh, yaagth, yoch, yog Squid: ghagh, ghuch, glash, glup, glush, guth, lagh, lulgh, mauh, mlulgh, shluh, shubb, shug, shul, shum, shuph, slaugh, sluagh, slud, sluph, snulg, ubb, yug Slugs: ghish, gluh, gluig, glung, milgh, milsh, phlid, phlith, shabh, shelzh, shig, sith, slaa, slig, slithe, sphid, squilg, squirsh, yilg, yish, yizh, zilgh Birds (by sound) Cries: breeer, eew, fee-bree, fieew, ih-ieee, ih-iii, kee-arr, kee-yer, keeerrr, kraaa, krr-eek, krrreeep, meeyah, peerr, peew, skweeurr, stree, strii, tzah-wiii, weeeerr, wha-whii Croaks: awoik, honk, hroank, kau-kau, kaw, kek, kluck, kraark, krarr, kroak, kronk, kwaa, oikaa, tcheck, tseck, tzuk, whaw, yenk Tweets: dee-dee, jeef, kil-dee, klee-ip, klee-it, klee-klee, kleet, li-kwee, pee, peea-wee, peet-see, tee-ho, tee-whee, tee-you, teee-ur, tew, tew-whee, towhee, tseet, twee, tweet, wheep, wreet, zweet Chirps: a-a, a-oh, che-wink, chi-chi, chip, chirrup, chuh, chuhli, dri-drop, ikka-chi, kidick, piri-piro, trill, wheeo-chchi, whit-whit, wik.wik Hoots: hoo, hooho, hoohooo, hooroo, hoot, hru, koo-ah, koo-koo, mwah, pwah, ruru, tiroo, too-loo, toowit, tuwu, twoah, twoo, whill, whipoor, whoo, whoo-ah Fish Fish: bilp, blib, blip, bloolgh, blub, blup, boolp, dilp, dool, floop, ghool, gloogh, glob, glop, glub, gluup, googh, guulgh, ool, plop, polgh, poolp, quilp, quolp, sblop, shib, shup, thilp, thlup, thoop Sharks: arllg, aurch, ferllch, frach, fragh, frauch, frrechk, grach, grallch, grech, grellch, gruch, grullch, kaurch, rauch, rechk, shkurr, shralk, shregk, shrrukk Eels: lool, mool, ooz, silv, slee, sleem, sleez, sliv, sliz, sloov, smee, sneel, snilv, snool, sool, szee, szoo, veez, vlee, vliz, vloo, vool, voolm, vooz, zeev, zilv, zliv, zloo, zool, zoov Reptiles Turtles: haash, heem, ihxaan, inixh, kahxtu, kam, kiul, mahz, mierz, mursh, reehm, scux, shai, shar, sheel, siul, skeen, slaxas, strai, suliz, sxur, taish, tur, tzenx, tzesh, tzuhan, tzur, xeem, xhan, xurelz Lizards: ahsk, anakh, ikhsar, inkh, isith, izkur, kar, kisz, krah, krizil, lirisk, liszth, rah, rahk, rahn, rahst, rahz, rausz, salar, sar, sard, sarn, skurr, skih, slith, sliz, surt, szaur, zahsu, zar, zark, zilakh Snakes: aassp, hish, hisstah, issah, issh, kaa, kepesh, nepthiss, ness, nissp, peshep, shaash, shaah, shaass, shissk, ssaan, ssaath, ssaah, ssashen, ssep, sseth, ssin, ssipth, ssnaah, ssnepth, vaass, vaathiss, viss, vissp, yaash, yiss Amphibians Frogs: bhirr, bhurr, bi-bugh, braarp, breek, brekk, brepp, brib, bripp, brooäkk, brrarp, bruurk, bulph, kek-kek, khroap, koärk, koäx, krekkek, pheärp, pribbit, phrip-pip, ribbit Toads: boag, bolg, brolg, gaarlb, goag, goalb, golg, goln, graal, roalb, roalg, rolg, rolv, slaag, slaan, slaar, slaav, sloag, slorg, slorv, soag, vaarg, vlaar, vlaaz, voag, volg, vraag, vraal, vrog, vrol Comical Names Not every sentient race met in the campaign world will be bloodthirsty killers, wise healers, eldritch horrors from the chaos beyond space-time, or aloof, elegant, and refined lords and ladies of Faerie. Some will fill the role of comic relief: funny, frivolous, or foolish. The bathetic species will depend on your world, but might include the grotesques of Faerie, small or trivial beings like brownies, perhaps gnomes, and even leprechauns, who need not always be stuck with names like Flannery O’Hooligan. Names for members of such races should sound anything but exotic or grand! Names from fiction that seem intrinsically absurd - Dogberry, Puddleglum, Rumplestiltskin, Prunesqualor, Beeblebrox, Pumblechook - are often combinations of familiar and unheroic words and sounds. Like names can easily be created for comical beings and persons. Some words (baffle, jiggle, wobble) carry a farcical quality already. Adding as prefix or suffix a short word (with a short vowel, or /ee/ or /oo/ sound) makes names that just sound funny. The lists below use real words and a few similar invented ones. They are arranged by initial vowels (a, e, i, o, u, ee, oo) so that you can choose particular sounds as desired, perhaps using different combinations for different races. Combine a short and a long element in any order to get thousands of possible names like Drubtuffet, Boontribble, Wifflesnab, or Toppleflop. Try other patterns too: the long-short-short Rumplestiltskin type (Spackleflubnub), long-long (Snufflewidget), or short-short (Pugwash). Add or change a few letters or words, or add any sillier sounds that come to mind, if the name has a meaning you don’t want (Bollweevil, Rumtruffle) or isn’t ridiculous enough. Short: bab, ball, blab, blat, clab, clap, dab, drab, flab, flam, flap, gab, gaff, glad, grab, nab, naff, nap, sag, slab, slap, snab, snag, snap, swab, tap, trap, wash, wrap, flegg, flerd, neg, nerf, swell, twerp, weff, bib, biff, blib, blimp, blip, chip, clip, dim, din, dip, drib, drip, fish, flim, flip, glib, grig, jiff, miff, nick, nimp, nip, pip, plink, plip, primp, quip, rip, simp, sip, skiff, skin, skip, slink, slip, snib, sniff, snitch, stilt, swill, swipe, swirl, swish, tip, titch, trip, twink, twirl, twisp, whiff, whim, whip, whirl, wimp, wish, wring, blob, blot, bob, boff, boll, bop, bosh, chop, clod, clop, clot, dob, drop, flop, floss, fom, fomp, glob, gob, goff, gosh, grog, hob, honk, hop, lob, lop, mob, moff, mop, nob, nop, plob, plonk, plop, poff, pom, pop, posh, prop, roll, sloff, slop, slosh, snob, sob, splot, top, twonk, woss, wrong, yob, zob, zonk, zot, bluff, bub, bud, buff, bump, bung, club, crum, curl, drub, drum, dull, dun, flub, fluff, flumph, frub, frump, furl, fuss, glum, grub, guff, hub, huff, lum, mum, murf, nub, nurb, plump, pub, pud, puff, pug, pup, rub, rum, rump, rung, slum, slump, slurp, smurb, snub, stub, suds, sung, trull, tub, tum, wub, wuff, wurp, wurt, been, beep, bree, breen, cleep, deeb, dree, dweeb, fleep, freep, glee, gleeb, gleep, leep, neep, peen, preen, seep, twee, wee, weep, yeep, zeen, boom, boon, boop, broo, chook, coop, droop, foom, gloom, gloon, goon, hoon, loop, moog, moop, moot, poon, poot, proon, proop, sloo, snood, snooze, spool, spoon, swoop, toot, tooth, vroom, whoop, whoosh, woob, yoop, zoon, zoot Long: amble, babble, baffle, barrel, bramble, clampet, crackle, dabbet, dabble, dapple, dazzle, drabble, draggle, faddle, faffle, frabble, fraggle, frazzle, gabble, gaffer, gaffle, gaggle, galoot, graffle, grapple, hackle, haggle, jaggle, paffle, rabble, raddle, raffle, ratchet, razzle, saddle, scrabble, snabble, snaffle, snaggle, spackle, stammer, twaddle, waffle, waggle, wattle, whackitt, wrangle, wrassel, yaffle, zaffle, belly, freckle, heckle, jelly, kettle, nettle, pebble, peddle, speckle, zeddle, bibble, biggle, diddle, dimple, dribble, drizzle, fiddle, fidget, figgle, fitchet, fribble, frippet, friskit, frizzle, gidget, giggle, gimbal, glimmer, glister, glitter, griddle, grimble, grizzle, jiggle, jizzle, limble, mizzle, nibble, niggle, nimble, ninny, piffle, ripple, scribble, scrimmage, sizzle, skittle, sniffle, snippet, squiffle, squiggle, stipple, swivel, thimble, thistle, tickle, tipple, tittle, tribble, trickle, twiddle, twissel, twitchet, whippet, whistle, wibble, widget, wiffle, wigga, wiggle, wimple, wriggle, wrinkle, zibble, zinkle, zinny, bobble, boffin, boffle, boggle, bottle, clobber, coffle, dobbin, doggle, dollop, fossick, gobble, grommet, hobble, joggle, lolly, noddy, nozzle, oggle, poddle, poggin, poggle, scroggin, snobble, snorkel, sozzle, stoffle, toggle, topple, wobble, zoddy, zossick, bluffer, bubble, bumble, butter, buttle, chuckle, chuffy, crumble, crumple, cuddle, duffer, duffle, dumple, dupple, flubber, fluddle, frumper, fuddle, fuffle, fumble, fussock, futtock, glumble, grumble, gullion, gummidge, hubble, huddle, huffle, juggle, jumble, muddle, muffet, muffle, muggins, mumble, muzzle, puddle, puffle, pumble, pummel, pumpkin, purple, puzzle, rubble, rummage, rumple, rustle, scrumpy, shuffle, slubber, snuffle, snuggle, stubble, stutter, sumple, truffle, tuffet, tumble, tussock, wurfle, wurzel, zubble, beeble, beedle, beetle, dweezil, feeble, geezer, needle, weasel, weeple, weevil, yeeple, broodle, coodle, croodle, doodle, google, hoogle, noodle, pooble, snooker, yoodle, zoofle Appendix A - Spoof Names Most role-playing games have some humour added as a seasoning, so the following spoof names are provided by way of amusing condiment. They might even be useful as a source of dubious aliases. Most are puns on various words and phrases, for instance, Rory Kroot is ‘raw recruit’ and Emma Chissitt is the Australian way to say “How much is it?”. Some puns are bilingual, some rely on strained pronunciation or context, but it’s fun puzzling them out. With the rest of this book for inspiration, you can come up with many more. Once you get started, though, it’s hard to stop! A.V. Nooshan, Aaron C. Reskew,Abdi Kate, Ada Mant, Adam Antine, Adam Fool, Ahmed Sumtee, Aida Biglunch, Alfie Bett, Ally Gater,Alma Mayta, Amanda Lynn, Ames Hyer,Angie O’Gramm, Anita Rangement, AnnAthema, Ann Thrax, Ann Tithesis, Anna Litical, Anna Mossity,Anna Rexia, Anne Cuff, Anne Soforth, Annie Seade, Anya Toze, April Inparee, Art Deco, Art Ifiss, Barb Dwire, Barbara Seville, Barbie Khan, Barry de Hatchett, Bea Flatt, Bea Holden, Bea Tiffick, Bell E.Acre, Bella D’Aball, Bella Kose, Belle Weather, Ben Dover, Benny Factor, Bess Beefor, Betty Bighs, Biddy Dew, Bjorn Toby Wilde, Blaise Aweigh, Bo Naidal, Bunny Warren, Buster Gutt, Butin Zador, C.U. Layter, Candy La Bras, Cara Cell, Cardinal Syn, Carole Singa, Carrie On, Carson O’Jenn, Caynan Nable, Chance A. Quaintance, Charity Kaice, Charlie Tan, Cheri D. Canta, Chester Droars, Chester Minnit, Chris Cross, Claire Voyant, Clara Fie, Claude Anbitt, Cliff Fangah, Coco Vann, Con Stappait, Constance Noring, Corrie Dryce, Count R. Plotz, Count Enance, Count Urfeat, DameAedmi de Witt, DameAnn D’Blassd, Dame Dhrai Bhones, Dame Nay Shun, Dame Theta Peadoze, Dame Yan Kees, Dan D. Lyon, Dee Sceptive, Delia Kards, Della Katessin, Delores Mae Shepherd, Di Arrear, Diane D. Kay, Diane Toomeetcha, Dick Tater, Dinah Mite, Dinah Sorrs, Don John, Don Key, Donna E. Mowblay, Donna Kebab, Doris Shutt, Doug Pitts, Duane Pipe, Dulcie Murr, Dustin Down, E. Odle Leahy, Earl E. Bird, Ed Ifiss, Eileen Dover, Ella Menterry, Ella Vater, Ellie Gant, Ellie Mosinary, Emilio Rate, Emma Blue, Emma Chissitt, Emma Naite, Emma Sari, Ensign Ondalyne, Erna Fortune, Ernest N. Devver, Esther Bahni, Etta Mology, Etta Napple, Eunice X., Eva Brick, Eva Dence, Evan Ess, Evan Kiel, Eve Aysive, Eve R. Green, F.R. Vess, Fairlie Good, Farmer Suiticals, Farrah Nacious, Fati Al’ofa, Fay Sake, Faye Derway, Felix Sited, Flora Dation, Fran Chyse, Frank N. Stine, Freda Kaptivz, Gail Forswind, GeneralAlArm, GerryAtrick, Gerry Bilt, Gilda Lillie, Ginger Vitis, Gladys Canbee, Gladys Seeya, Glor Eebie, Gloria Mundy, Godiva Payne, Goober Mensch, Gor Delpus, Gordie N. Knott, GottfriedAtlast, Gustav Wind, Haile Delighted, Hairee Guard, Hank E. Pankie, Hans Zoffer, Hans Zupp, Harry Cain, Harry Cobene, Hazel May Call, Hedda Hare, Heddy Wein, Hein Zeitt, Helen Hywater, Helen Wheels, Helena Hanbaskitt, Helmut Leiner, Henry Will Burst, Herbie Hind, Herr Brusch, Hiram Cheep, Hoo Flung Dung, Horace Cope, Hugh Betcha, Hugh Jedd, Hugh Raye, I. Ken Hackett, I.C. Ewe, I.M. Superior, Ida Claire, Ida Down, Igor Beaver, Igor Blymee, Ilsa Pell, Ima Hogg, Indra Doldrums, Iona Minque, Iris Tew, Isabel Tolling, Isla Mews, Isolde Carr, Ivan Edge, Ivor Heddaik, Jack Pott, Jaye Esbach, Jean Jeraile, Jennie Sayqua, Jerry Mander, Jim Naiseum, Joe King, Joyce Goods, Juan Tanamera, Jules Angold, Juliet Lotts, June Yerprom, Justin Eidelburger, Justin Thyme, Kay Oss, Kay Sara Cirrah, Kaye Passah, Kirsten Swoar, Kofi Tugo, KurtAndrewd, Lady Mandown, Lana Lynn, Lance Boyle, Laura Norder, Laurie Dryver, Leah Tard, Lee Vitouht, Lena Genster, Letta Sprey, Levy Tate, Libbie Doe, Lily Livird, Lionel Rohr, Liza Wayke, Lois Price, Lolly Gagging, Lorne Moërs, Lotta Bottle, Lucinda Joynts, Lydia Dustbin, Lynn C. Doyle, M.R. Shun, Mae B. Dunn, Mahatma Cote, Maisie Starrs, Major Paine, Mal Apropizm, Manov Stror, Marcia Mello, Marian Haste, Marie Juana, Marsha Law, Marva Luss, Matt Adore, Maude Lynn, Max Imam, May Pohl, Mayette Bloom, Mel N. Collie, Melody Lingersson, Mersie Killan, Mia Culpa, Miles A. Head, Millie Grazie, Minna Skewel, Miss Ann Thrope, Miss Fitt, Miss Print, Miss Take, Moira Less, Molly Coddle, Molly Fie, Mona Lott, Mona Moore, Mosely Fine, Mousey Dung, Ms Andry, Mustafa Beere, N. Sayne, N. Sipid, Nan Tucket, Natalie Attired, Nora Boan, Norman Conquest, Oliver de Plaice, Ophelia Reers, Orson Kart, Owen Moore, Paddy Fields, Paddy O’Furniture, Paige Turner, Paladin Sain, Pastor Buck, Pat Ernal, Patty Defwahgrah, Paul Bearer, Pearl Button, Pearl E. Gates, Percy Flarge, Percy Vere, Persis Fuller, Pete Moss, Peter Out, Phil Landers, Phyllis Stein, Piers Ensyde, Polly Glott, Polly Morfuss, Quincey Dental, R. Ketipe, R. McGedden, Rachel Prejudiss, Ragnar Rock, Ramon Lyme, Ray Gunn, Reg Oyce, Rhoda Dendrin, Rhonda Laye, Rick O’Shea, Ripov Zarus, Rip ze Korsettoff, Rob Burr, Robyn Banks, Romana Clay, Rory Kroot, Rose Sharpish, Roxanna Harplaice, Russ Teenayle, S. Cargo, Sal Monella, Saladin Abun, Sally Forth, Sally Mander, Salome Downe, Sandy Beech, Sarah Nader, Seymour Squintin, Shaun Sheep, Shirley Eugeste, Shirley Knott, Sir Eebril, Sir Ender Yawepponz, Sir Fass Noyes, Sir John Jenneril, Sir Kim Scribe, Sir Kim Navagait, Sir Kumf Ferrenz, Sir Loin de Boeuf, Sir Parr Stitt, Sir Pentin Eden, Sir Plust Ock, Sir Port Ersclub, Sir Ree Allisst, Sir Rendar Ordye, Sir Rhosisov de Liver, Sir Q. Layshun, Sir Tan de Feete, Sir Tendoom, Sir Tenleigh Knott, Sir Tiff Iyabull, Sir Toryalel le Gance, Sir Vere de Pression, Sir Viss Stachinne, Sir Vomek Anism, Sir Yussin Jewry, Sonia Buttons, Spender Penny, Stan Dupp, Sue M. Orle, Sue Flay, Sy Kloan, Tamara Knight, Tanya Hyde, Tara Rabuhm D.A., Thayer Orff, TintAxe, Titus Anute, Tommy Gunn, Troy Waite, Ty Foyd, U. Bliette, U.R. O’Fish, Upton O’Goode, V. Gates, V. Hickel, Vera Similitude, Vi O’Lent, VickArius, Vonda Gize, Wade Lesce, Wanda Farr, Wanda Lussed, Wava Whyte-Flagg, Will Paua, Willy Nillie, Won Lump Sum, Wynne Daupaigne, Yul Beefine Those miffed by having their real names used here should see our legal representatives, Suemm, Grabbit, and Runn. Appendix B - Name Distribution These lists show the percentage distributions of names in the world’s more populous countries (year 2000 populations in millions noted), based on ethnic, linguistic, and religious make.up. These figures are approximate at best! Some differences and dialects have been ignored. Local variations also occur: large cities will be more cosmopolitan, certain places will have more names of one sort than another (more French names in Louisiana than in the rest of America, for instance). People will usually (90%+) have forenames and surnames from the same source, where such a naming pattern is used; but mixes occur, notably in America (70% from same source). The notation ‘Native’ means languages or tribes indigenous to the region, either too small and numerous to record or whose naming practices are unknown. ‘British’ means a typical mix for Anglophone countries: mostly English names, with some Scottish, Irish, and Welsh, as in the United Kingdom listing; use English if the number is small or you are pressed for time. To determine a name randomly, roll d% and read across to find its source. Africa NorthAfrica Algeria (31m): Arabic (01-85), Berber (86-95), French (96-00). Egypt(68m): Arabic (01-90), British (91-96), French (97-99), Italian (00). Libya(5m): Arabic (01-90), Berber (91-95), Italian (96-98), British (99-00). Morocco(30m): Arabic (01-85), Berber (86-95), French (96-00). Tunisia (9m):Arabic (01-90), Berber (91-95), French (96-00). East Africa Burundi(6m): Native (01-50), French (56-90), Swahili (91.95),Arabic (96-00). Central African Native (01-45), French (46-89), Republic(3m) Swahili (86-90),Arabic (91-00). Chad(8m): Arabic (01-45), French (46-70), Native (71-00). Eritrea(4m): Arabic (01-45), Native (46-00). Ethiopia (64m):Arabic (01-45), Native (46-95), British (96-00). Kenya(30m): Swahili (01-40), British (41-50), Kikuyu (51-65), Kisii (66-70), Luo (70-79), Native (79-95),Arabic (96-00). Madagascar (15m): French (01-50), Malay (51-75), Indonesian (76-95),Arabic (96-00). Mozambique (19m): Portuguese (01-40), Native (41-95), Arabic (86-00). Rwanda(7m): Native (01-79), Twa (80), French (81-90), British (91-95), Swahili (96-00). Somalia(7m): Arabic(01-45),Somali (46-96), Italian (97-98), British (99-00). Sudan(35m): Arabic (01-45), Native (46-97), British (98-00). Tanzania (35m):Arabic (01-30), Swahili (31-50), Native (51-90), British (91-00). Uganda(23m): Baganda (01-15), Karamojong (16-25), Native (26-70), British (71-94), Swahili (85-95),Arabic (96-00). SouthAfrica Botswana(1m): British (01-40), Tswana (41-00). Lesotho(2m): British (01-30), Sesotho (31-00). Malawi(10m): British (01-30), Native (31-85), Arabic (86-00). Namibia(1m): German (01-20), Dutch (21-40), Native (41-95), British (96-00). South Africa (43m): Dutch (01-20), British (21-30), Native (31-95), Indian (95-98), Arabic (99-00). Swaziland(1m): British (01-30), Native (31-00). Zambia(9m): British (01-30), Native (31-81), Indian (81-90),Arabic (91-00). Zimbabwe (11m): British (01-20), Shona (21-75), Native (76-00). West Africa Angola (10m): Portuguese (01-30), Native (31-00). Benin (6m): French (01-30), Yoruba (31-40), Native (41-90), Arabic (91-00). Burkina Faso (11m): French (01-30), Native (31-70), Arabic (71-00). Cameroon (15m): Native (01-70), British (71-80), French (81-90), Arabic (91-00). Congo, Democratic Republic (21m): Native (01-70), French (71-90), Swahili (91-95), Arabic (96-00). Congo, Republic (2m): Native (01-75), French (76-97), Arabic (98-00). Gabon(1m): French (01-30), Native (31-00). Gambia(1m): British (01-20), Native (21-70), Arabic (71-00). Ghana(19m): British (01-20), Ewe (21-30), Native (31-84), Arabic (85-00). Guinea-Bissau (1m): Portuguese (01-15), Native (16-75), Arabic (76-00). Ivory Coast (15m): Arabic (01-40), French (41-65), Native (66-00). Liberia (3m): British (01-15), Native (16-90), Arabic (91-00). Mali(10m): French (01-15), Native (16-70), Arabic (71-00). Mauritania (2m): French (01-05), Native (06-65), Arabic (66-00). Niger (10m): French (01-20), Native (21-70), Arabic (71-00). Nigeria (123m): British (01-15), Yoruba (16-30), Ibo (31-45), Native (46-70), Arabic (71-00). Senegal (9m): French (01-20), Native (16-70), Arabic (71-00). Sierra Leone (5m): British (01-30), Native (31-80), Arabic (81-00). Togo(5m): French (01-20), Ewe (21-28), Native (29-95), Arabic (96-00). America North America Canada(31m):  British (01-65), French (66-90), German (91-94), Italian (94-95), Amerindian (96-97), Russian (98), Chinese (99), Dutch (00).  Mexico(100m):  Spanish (01-95), Native (96-00).  United States (275m): British (01-76), Spanish (77-82), Italian (83-86), Irish (87-88), German (89-90), French (91-92), Jewish (93-94), Chinese (95), Arabic (96), Norwegian (97), Dutch (98), Indian (99), Amerindian (00). Central America Costa Rica (3m): Spanish (01-96), British (97-98), Native (99), Chinese (00). Cuba(11m): Spanish (01-99), Chinese (00). Dominican Republic (8m): Spanish (01-00). El Salvador (6m): Spanish (01-99), Native (00). Guatemala (12m): Spanish (01-60), Native (61-00). Haiti(6m): French (01-00). Honduras (6m): Spanish (01-94), Native (95-00). Jamaica (2m): British (01-97), Indian (98-00). Nicaragua (4m): Spanish (01-95), Native (96-00). Panama(2m): Spanish (01-80), British (81-95), Native (96-00). Puerto Rico (3m): Spanish (01-85), British (86-00). Trinidad & Tobago (1m): British (01-55), Indian (56-95), Arabic (96-99), French (98), Spanish (99), Chinese (00). South America Argentina (36m): Spanish (01-75), Italian (76-84), German (85-89), British (90-92), French (93-95), Native (96-98), Jewish (99-00). Bolivia (8m): Spanish (01-45), Quechua (46-75), Aymara (76-00). Brazil (172m): Portuguese (01-80), Spanish (81-89), British (90-91), French (92-93), German (94-95), Italian (96-97), Polish (98-99), Native (00). Chile (15m):  Spanish (01-96), German (97), Native (98-00).  Colombia(39m):  Spanish (01-97), Native (98-00).  Ecuador(12m):  Spanish (01-80), Quechua (81-97), Native (98-00).  Paraguay(5m):  Spanish (01-90), Guarani (91-00).  Peru (27m):  Spanish (01-55), Quechua (56-85), Aymara (86-97), Japanese (98-99), Chinese (00).  Uruguay(3m):  Spanish (01-90), Portuguese (91-00).  Venezuela (23m): Spanish (01-97), Native (98-00). Asia North Asia China(1261m): Chinese (01-95), Tibetan (96-97), Korean (98), Mongol (99), Arabic (00). Japan(126m): Japanese (01-99), Korean (00). Hong Kong (7m): Chinese (01-85), British (86-00) Korea, North (21m): Korean (01-99), Chinese (00). Korea, South (47m): Korean (01-99), British (00). Mongolia (2m): Mongol (01-90), Russian (91-95), Tibetan (96-99), Arabic (00). Taiwan(22m): Chinese (01-99), British (00). South Asia Afghanistan (25m): Arabic (01-95), Native (96-00). Bangladesh (129m): British (01-05), Indian (06-35), Arabic (36-00). Bhutan (2m): Indian (01-45), Tibetan (46-00). Burma(41m): Burmese (01-80), Native (81-95), Chinese (96-98), Arabic (99-00). Cambodia (12m): Khmer (01-95), French (96-98), British (99), Chinese (00). India(1014m): British (01-10), Indian (11-85), Sikh (86-87), Mongol (88-89), Arabic (91-00). Indonesia (224m): Malay (01-45), Arabic (46-87), Indian (88-95), Dutch (96-98), British (99-00). Laos(5m): Lao (01-85), French (86-97), British (98-99), Chinese (00). Malaysia(21m): Malay(01-45),Arabic(46-71), Chinese (72-88), Indian (89-95), British (96-00). Mauritius (1m): British (01-20), French (21-40), Indian (41-90),Arabic (91-00). Nepal(24m): Indian (01-75), Tibetan (76-95), Native (96-99), Arabic (00). Pakistan (141m): British (01-05), Indian (06-25), Native (26-35), Arabic (36-00). Philippines (81m): Pilipino (01-70), British (71-95), Arabic (96-99), Chinese (00). Singapore (4m): Chinese (01-65), British (66-80), Malay (81-89), Indian (90-95), Arabic (96-00). Sri Lanka (19m): British (01-05), Sinhala (06-80), Tamil (81-95), Arabic (96-00). Thailand (61m): Thai (01-80), Chinese (81-95), British (96-97), Arabic (98-00). Vietnam (78m): Vietnamese (01-90), Chinese (91-93), Khmer (94-97), French (98-99), British (00). Britain Ireland(3m): Irish (01-85), English (86-00). United Kingdom (59m): English (01-82), Scottish (83-91), Irish (92-95), Welsh (96-97), Indian (98-99), Arabic (00). England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland: Assume England has about the same breakdown as the UK overall; and that the others are Scottish, Welsh, or Irish (01-70), English (71-00). Europe  West Europe  Albania(3m):  Albanian (01-85), Arabic (86-92), Greek (92-96), Serbo-Croat (97-98), Gypsy (99-00).  Austria (8m):  German (01-97), Hungarian (98-99), Gypsy (00).  Belgium (10m):  Dutch (01-58), French (59-90), German (91-00).  Bosnia-Herzegovina (3m): Serbo-Croat (01-00). Croatia (4m): Serbo-Croat (01-99), Hungarian (00). Czech Republic (10m): Czech (01-95), Slovak (96-00). Denmark (5m): Danish (01-99), Turkish (00). France (59m): French (01-99), Arabic (00). Germany (82m): German (01-95), Turkish (96-97), Italian (98), Serbo-Croat (99), Arabic (00). Greece (10m): Greek (01-99), Arabic (00). Hungary(10m): Hungarian (01-91), Gypsy (92-95), German (96-98), Serbo-Croat (99-00). Italy(57m): Italian(01-99),German (00). Macedonia (2m): Bulgarian (01-67), Albanian (68-90), Arabic (91-92), Turkish (93-96), Serbo-Croat (97-98), Gypsy (99-00). Netherlands (15m): Dutch (01-97), Turkish (98-99), Arabic (00). Norway(4m): Norwegian (01-00). Poland(38m): Polish (01-98), German (99), Russian (00). Portugal (10m): Portuguese (01-00). Serbia & Montenegro (10m): Serbo-Croat (01-95), Albanian (96-99), Arabic (00). Slovakia (5m): Slovak (01-88), Hungarian (89-98), Czech (99), Gypsy (00). Slovenia (1m): Slovenian (01-93), Serbo-Croat (94-99), Hungarian (00). Spain(39m): Spanish (01-98), Basque (99-00). Sweden (8m): Swedish (01-97), Finnish (98-00). Switzerland (7m): German (01-70), French (71-89), Italian (90-99), Spanish (00). East Europe Armenia(3m): Armenian (01-95), Arabic (96-98), Russian (99-00). Azerbaijan (7m):Arabic (01-92), Russian (93-98), Armenian (99-00). Belarus (10m): Byelorussian (01-79), Russian (80-96), Polish (97-00). Bulgaria (7m):  Bulgarian (01-90), Turkish (91-97), Gypsy (98-00).  Estonia(1m):  Estonian (01-66), Russian (67-99), Finnish (00).  Finland(5m):  Finnish (01-94), Swedish (95-00)  Georgia(5m):  Russian (01-83), Armenian (84-90), Arabic (91-00).  Kazakhstan (16m): Kazakh (01-40), Russian (41-70), Arabic (71-94), German (95-97), Uzbek (98-00). Kyrgyzstan (4m): Kirghiz (01-50), Russian (51-68), Uzbek (69-80), Arabic (81-99), German (00). Latvia(2m): Latvian (01-58), Russian (59-98), Polish (99-00). Lithuania(3m): Lithuanian (01-83), Russian (84-93), Polish (94-00). Moldovia(4m): Romanian (01-75), Russian (76-97), Bulgarian (98-99), Jewish (00). Romania(22m): Romanian (01-88), Hungarian (89-96), Gypsy (97-99), German (00). Russia (146m): Russian (01-95), Mongol (96-99), Arabic (00). Tajikistan (6m): Tajik (01-65), Uzbek (66-90), Arabic (91-97), Russian (98-00). Turkmenistan (4m): Turkmen (01-77), Arabic (78-83), Uzbek (84-92), Russian (93-98), Kazakh (99-00). Ukraine (49m): Russian (01-95), Romanian (96-97), Polish (98), Hungarian (99), Jewish (00). Uzbekistan (24m): Uzbek (01-80), Russian (81-85), Tajik (86-90), Kazakh (91-93), Arabic (94-00). Middle East Gaza Strip (1m): Arabic (01-99), Jewish (00). Iran(65m): Arabic (01-99), Turkish (00). Iraq(22m): Arabic (01-99), Turkish (00). Israel (5m): Jewish (01-82), Arabic (83-96), Russian (97-98), Romanian (99), German (00). Jordan(4m): Arabic (01-99), Armenian (00). Kuwait(2m): Arabic (01-91), Indian (92-00). Yemen(17m): Arabic (01-98), Somali (99), Indian (00). Lebanon(3m): Arabic (01-70), French (71-96), Armenian (97-00). Oman(2m): Arabic (01-85), Indian (86-00). Saudi Arabia (22m):Arabic (01-00). Syria (16m): Arabic (01-96), Armenian (97-00). Turkey (65m): Turkish (01-80), Arabic (81-00). United Arab Emirates (2m): Arabic (01-87), British (88-89), Chinese (90), Indian (91-00). West Bank (2m):Arabic (01-83), Jewish (84-00). Oceania Australia (19m): British (01-92), Irish (93), Chinese (94-95), Indian (96), Greek (97), Serbo-Croat (98), Italian (99), Arabic (00). New Zealand (3m): British (01-84), Maori (85-90), Irish (91), Chinese (92-94), Dutch (95), Indian (96-97), Polynesian (98-00). Papua New Guinea (4m): British (01-15), Chinese (16-17), Indian (18-19), Spanish (20), Papuan (21-00). Appendix c - More Methods Despite all the made-up names in this book, it may be found wanting. “A paltry assortment,” one might drawl, eyes drooping languidly as he flicks an imaginary speck of dust from a spotless lace cuff. “I am a Game Designer, and create two-score fantastic names before breakfast.” He sighs. “I had expected… more.” Well, there’s no pleasing some people. But there are other ways of making up names if you happen to run short. Some such methods are furnished here for your interest and possible use. Random Letters This roll-your-own method can create good names, although you may need to give it a bit of help. We treat ‘y’ as a vowel to help divide the alphabet neatly between dice, and alternate vowels and consonants to avoid unpronounceable clumps of letters. First, decide the rough length of the name to be created. For random assignation, roll d10 and check the table below to get from one to five syllables (roll d8+1 for typical names). This is the number of vowels in the name. Start a quarter of names with a vowel, and end a quarter of names with one (roll a pair of d4s with each name to check beginnings and endings). Now just alternate rolling a d6 for vowels and a d20 for consonants, consulting the tables below and writing down the letters until the name is finished. Then, if you wish to improve it, add extra vowels or consonants to syllables, transpose letters, or otherwise alter it as you see fit. Roll up names in groups: if a few are hopeless, you can probably still stick bits of them together to get a reasonable name. Table D-1: Syllables (d10) One (1), two (2-5), three (6-8), four (9), five (0). Consonants (d20) 1  b  6  h  11  n  16  t  2  c  7  j  12  p  17  v  3  d  8  k  13  q  18  w  4  f  9  l  14  r  19  x  5  g  10  m  15  s  20  z  Vowels (d6) 1 a 3 i 5 u 2 e 4 o 6 y For example, we roll 6 on a d10 for a three-syllable name; d4 rolls of 2 and 4 mean it starts and ends with consonants. Rolling alternately on the Consonants and Vowels tables, we end up with Hijavox. Not quite dramatic enough for what we needed, so we add a vowel to one syllable, a consonant to another, and a hyphen for emphasis to give Hai-javrox. Rolling a few more, we get Jagot and Verizi, which we decide are fine for a pair of henchmen, and some weird things we put to one side for use by squid-people. This method has advantages in producing generally pronounce.able and unfamiliar names, but it is too random overall. Sometimes the names just don’t sound right, and you can’t get strings of consonants or vowels (‘str’, ‘th’, ‘ae’) unless you add them yourself. What’s more, those rolled up fit no particular flavour, so you can’t easily produce similar-sounding groups of names for specific groups. To restrict possible combinations, you might want to remove some vowels and consonants and make some more frequent than others, add a selection of digraphs (double letters), and so on. It helps if you have something specific in mind. The written form of the Maori language, for instance, uses the five short vowels and five long (the latter often written double) and ten consonants (h, k, m, n, ng, p, r, t, w, wh): this can easily be put into two tables of ten entries to generate real-sounding words. Revised tables can work agreeably, but the more rules you add (starting letters, the times a letter can recur, distance between certain letter groups), the more it becomes suited to a computer program than dice and tables. Alphabet Dice One way to speed up the process above, or to choose random starting letters for names, is to create alphabet dice. Self-adhesive labels from stationery suppliers in the form of small ‘dots’ the size a hole-punch makes should fit nicely on the faces of a standard d20 or d30 (and in the middle of d6 faces). Alternatively, you can use a hole-punch to create paper ‘dots’, and then glue them on. Label with letters as desired. You can fit the whole alphabet on a d30, with four faces left over - for your choice, perhaps (if you use the d30 to select list names, a blank face might mean ‘pick a common one’). Variations on a Theme Sometimes you may want to ring the changes on an existing name. Perhaps you like the sound of one of the names in this book, but want something slightly different. To do this, you could tweak a few letters here and there, or go through and replace all instances of a particular letter with another rolled randomly on the Consonants or Vowels table. You can stay closer to the original by replacing letters with similar-sounding ones. Find the letters to change in the Related Letters table (based loosely on phonetics), and choose a letter from that group (randomly if you’re checking them all, so some may end up the same). Note: treat ‘ch’, ‘ph’, ‘qu’, and ‘th’ as single letters for this purpose; ‘y’ can be a vowel or consonant, and ‘c’ hard or soft, depending on the original. Include an adjacent group on the line for more leeway. Alter as you see fit if the result lacks élan. Table D-2: Related Letters e, i, y • a, o, u b, f, p, ph • d, t, th ch, h, j • c, g, k, q, qu c, s, x, z • v, w, y l, r • m, n For example, taking ‘Koromath’ we go through and replace letters a few times to get ‘Kalamod’, ‘Goromoth’, and ‘Quurunat’. The Stochastic Nomenclator This is not a powerful magic item or wizard! It means something that creates names following statistical rules; in this case that something is a computer program. The underlying method is described here, for those with programming skills who wish to construct their own version. (While it could be done with tables and dice, the process would be immensely tedious.) No language or stock of names uses all the sounds which a human mouth can create; rather, each restricts itself to a smaller set, with some sounds more frequent than others, which lends it a particular quality. So when the sounds are written down in the Roman alphabet, not all the myriad possible combinations of vowels and consonants are used. In fact, characteristic frequencies of letter combinations give us signposts to language or culture. At its simplest, a lot of Scottish surnames start with Mac or Mc. Russian starts words with vl-; Polish prz-; an initial mb or ng sounds African. A q without a u following (Tariq, Qatar) is apt to be Arabic; Hebrew has a throaty sound, with lots of diphthongs and thickened consonants (sh, th, ph), and so on. This sort of broad pattern should apply to made-up languages and names too: they will have a distinct form, characterised by certain frequencies of letter combinations. The statistics for English are well known. For instance, ‘e’ is the most likely letter to end a word, ‘j’ the least. The rank of letters from most to least common: e, a, t, i, n, o, r, s, l, h, d, c, m, u, f, p, g, b, y, w, v, k, x, j, z, q. The most common letter pairs: in, th, he, an, er, re, on, nd, or, es. It is difficult to get statistics for other languages, impossible for invented names, but you can write a simple computer program to do the analysis. Elaborate algorithms and rules are unnecessary. Start with a largish sample of words or names - a selection of a hundred names of a kind you like, lists of foreign words or names from this and other books or the Internet. Have this raw data stored in a field, kept as a text file, or whatever. The program should read it and count the occurrences of character pairs, storing the data in variables or an array. Count spaces and so on to determine starting and ending characters. You could also count hyphens and apostrophes if the names made use of them. For instance, reading in { Jaan } would give {space-j, j-a, a-a, a-n, n-space}. The idea is to create a frequency matrix of letter pairs from the sample, which can then be used to concoct new names. You might want to store this matrix somewhere, but it’s probably as easy to create it on the fly. You may also find it simpler, rather than calculating probabilities, just to list all letter pairs starting with a certain letter as items in a list for later random sampling. Next, generate random names using the results obtained and whatever stipulations for length and so on you build in or let the user choose. For each name, choose a frequency-weighted random letter from those used to start names. Choose the next letter similarly from possible pairs. Repeat until the name is generated. Tweak as necessary, adding checks to avoid too-short names and so on. The names produced should show the same patterns as the sample provided, in (with luck) intriguing new combinations. The general nature of the Stochastic Nomenclator means it can be widely applied. You can keep a whole range of lists for various languages and types of names. You can ‘shade’ the kind of names generated by mixing in various proportions of names from different sources: Celtic, Cornish, Goblin, Demon, Norse, and so on. The good thing about such a computer program is that you can generate dozens of such names at a time, and even if some are sub-par, you can just click a button to generate more. Of course you have to spend the time writing the program first! Appendix D - The Onomancer Onomancy is a specialized form of divination using names. It requires more research than divining by pure intuition or phenomena such as clouds and tea leaves, but offers more benefits, and has a few associated powers for the rare Onomancers advanced in the ability. Onomancers may have official status in some societies, since they may be required to register names and record name changes for official purposes. Onomancers are sages of a sort, fascinated by and knowledge.able about names. They are familiar with the names of people, other sentient beings, and places in many lands, and can fathom a name’s origin, long-lost meanings, and so on. In general, they develop something like ‘perfect pitch’ in regard to names. They pick them up quickly, pronounce and use them correctly, and will not forget them. This extends to similar sound patterns, making them expert at solving riddles, puzzles, codes, and ciphers, and giving them insight into linguistics, animal communication, and magic. They understand the taxonomy and classification of known species, mundane and supernatural, including basic knowledge of creatures (not game statistics). Onomancers may be met in a campaign if they are hired by the party for name research, whether to name an adventuring company, to find out the original meaning of a place name, to solve a name-based riddle, or to change a name to remove bad luck. The gamemaster can use this book for any names the Onomancers might come up with. Like other sages, they can be fussy and exacting, and while greatly interested in their specialty and what impinges on it, are at times uninterested in or dismissive of unrelated and mundane matters. Onomancer Prestige Class d20 Onomancers are specialized arcane spellcasters that are concerned with the true natures, essences, and especially names of people, places, substances, and things. Their most common business is with the naming of children, boats, and so on, where they have much the same status (and income) as other tradesmen. Moving up from the semi-mundane, the more able practitioners use their spells and other abilities to improve their skills in other areas of magic. Onomancers are typically spellcasters. Specialist wizard diviners are the most common classes that undertake this role, but both sorcerers and bards are also well suited to this role. Wizards who specialize in conjuration also may take this class to enhance their calling spells. Typical races that take this role are humans, dwarves, and elves. Hit Die: d4. Requirements To qualify to become an Onomancer, a character must fulfill all the following criteria. Skills: Knowledge (Arcana) 8 ranks, Perform 8 ranks (act, comedy, oratory, or sing). Feats: Utilize Truename (new feat, see below), Spell Focus (Divination). BOOK OF NAMES 202 Spells: Must be able to cast 2nd Level arcane spells, must know at least three divination spells. Class Skills The Onomancer’s class skills (and the key ability for each skill) are Appraise (Int), Concentration (Con), Decipher Script (Int), Diplomancy (Cha), Gather Information (Cha), Knowledge (all skills taken individually) (Int), Perform (Cha), Profession (Wis), Speak Language, Spellcraft (Int), and Use Magic Device (Cha). Skill Points at Each Level: 4 + Int modifier. Comprehend Languages (Sp). This power is considered a spell like ability that is always active. If dispelled, it can be reactivated as a free action. If suppressed (as in an anti-magic field), it reactivates when the effect is no longer in force. For all other intents and purposes, it’s considered a spell cast at the spell caster’s level. Name Knowledge (Ex): The Onomancer has a special knowledge of linguistics in general and will never mispronounce a name, speaking a name without difficulty unless under magical compulsion to do so. If deafened, the Onomancer will not mess up the use of a name (or Truename) in a casting attempt. Utilize Names of Power (Su): The Onomancer can use the names of certain entities to enhance either specific spells or their effects on specific creatures. Each time he or she gains this ability, he or she gets to choose one of the following effects. Favored Enemy: The Onomancer chooses a creature on the Ranger’s Favorite Enemies chart. Any spell cast on any of those creatures gets a +4 bonus to the DC to resist the spell’s effect. Named Spell: The Onomancer chooses one specific spell to be enhanced by the name of power. By integrating this spell with the name of power, the spell gains the benefit of requiring only a verbal component whenever cast, though any spell that requires a valuable material component will still require it. Metamagic Enhancement: The Onomancer may, once per day, at the time of casting, apply one of the following metamagic feats to any spell: Enlarge Spell, Empower Spell, Extend Spell, Widen Spell. Bonus Language (Ex): Each time the Onomancer gets this ability he or she can choose a bonus language. Bonus Truename (Su): The Onomancer can add 1 True name to the number of True Names his Utilize Truename feat allows him. Thus, an 8th level Onomancer with a 20 INT can know up to 8 True Names. Read Magic (Sp). This power is considered a spell like ability that is always active. If dispelled, it can be reactivated as a free action. If suppressed (as in an anti-magic field), it reactivates when the effect is no longer in force. For all other intents and purposes, it’s considered a spell cast at the spell caster’s level. Know Ordinary Name (Su): The Onomancer automatically knows the real (ordinary) name of any being or object he or she can see, even if the user is disguised, protected by a glamour, or attempting to pass himself off as something else. Note that this does not give the Onomancer any knowledge outside of the correct name for the individual. Know Item Command Words (Su): By touching a magic item that utilizes command words, an Onomancer instantly knows all of the command words for that item. This does not tell the Onomancer what the item or command words do, that will require experimentation. Detect Password (Su). Whenever the Onomancer approaches a magically trapped or warded area protected by a specific password, such as an area protected by forbiddance, a symbol, or something, the Onomancer is allowed to make a Will save against the DC of the spell. If he succeeds, he instinctively gains knowledge of the password (and what it’s used for), and can vocalize it to access the area or disable the trap. Tongues (Sp). This power is considered a spell like ability that is always active. If dispelled, it can be reactivated as a free action. If suppressed (as in an anti-magic field), it reactivates when the effect is no longer in force. For all other intents and purposes, it’s considered a spell cast at the spell caster’s level. Divine Word (Sp). Through knowledge of divinities and other cosmic forces, the Onomancer can utilize a divine word once/day—this is a Blasphemy, Dictum, Holy Word, or Word of Chaos. The Onomancer can’t utilize a word that is opposed to his or her alignment. For all other purposes, this is considered a spell equal to the caster’s level. Power Word (Sp). Through knowledge of the cosmic forces, the Onomancer gets the ability to utilize power word, stun; power word, blind; or power word, kill, once per day. For all other purposes, this is considered a spell equal to the caster’s level. New Feat: Utilize Truename [Metamagic] One of the laws of the multiverse is that names exist. In primal terms, things have names that the entire multiverse recognizes, a unique key codifying their entire existence. The ancient Egyptians called this Ren, one of the nine pieces of an individual, and the destruction of the name meant the destruction of all other parts—soul, spirit, mind, and body. Of course, Truenames are not the typical names used by mankind, and most people don’t even know their own True Names. True names are so complex that they require this feat to understand—ordinary people can’t understand or retain knowledge of a true name (save for their own) unless they have this feat. A person who has this feat can know a number of Truenames equal to the character’s intelligence bonus modifier, thus a character with a 18 INT can know 4 True Names. Note that these aren’t granted “for free” when the feat is taken—the character must perform long and complex research to discern a Truename for a unique individual, and it is a very difficult task. (DM’s call, but it is at least a DC 30-40 effort with a Knowledge skill for the appropriate creature type, as well as weeks of research or other spells like Legend Lore or Contact Other Plane) If a character wants to learn a Truename when his allocated quota is full, he must forget the old True Name. This takes one week to do through an anti-mnemonic purging process, and it prevents that user from ever discovering that Truename again for that individual. Truenames exist for any form of object or being that was either forged by a sapient or quasi-sapient creature, (such as a mystical sword, or a golem/construct), or any form of creature that is at least semi.intelligent—including elementals, outsiders, and most undead. (This does not include powerful deities, deities have Truenames but they are beyond the understanding of mortals—minor deities, demigods, and things like unique demon lords and arch-devils may be able to have their truenames manipulated by mortals, but that is up to the GM, and it is likely such powerful beings may have a compound Truename, requiring multiple true-name slots to have these effects). Knowing a unique creature’s True Name gives the person the following benefits, provide the caster spends one round speaking the Truename before attempting any of these effects: All attempts to scry the creature will automatically succeed, unless actually blocked by powerful warding magic such as Screen or Mind Blank, or due to planar conditions. All Mind-Affecting spells (charms and compulsions), Curses (like Bestow Curse), and spells that transmogrify the creature (polymorph, petrification), will work automatically, without allowing either Spell Resistance or a saving throw. All Conjuration (Calling) spells and any Abjuration spells that banish extraplanar creatures will work without allowing Spell Resistance or a saving throw. This will not have an effect on other spells, such as most evocation spells that conjure energy attacks, death effects, etc. The Onomacer Class Abilities  Level  Attack Bonus  Fortitude Save  Reflex Save  Will Save  Special Abilities Spells  1  +1  +0  +0  +2  Comprehend Languages at will, Name Knowledge, Utilize 1 Name of  Power, Bonus Language.  +1 level of existing class  2  +1  +0  +0  +3  1 Bonus Truename, Read Magic at will  3  +1  +1  +1  +3  Know Ordinary Name, Bonus Language,  Utilize 2 Names of Power  +1 level of existing class  4  +2  +1  +1  +4  2 Bonus Truename  +1 level of existing class  5  +2  +1  +1  +4  Bonus Language, Utilize 3 Names of Power  +1 level of existing class  6  +2  +2  +2  +5  Know Item Commands, Bonus Truename  7  +3  +2  +2  +5  Bonus Language, Utilize 4 Names of Power, Detect Password  +1 level of  existing class  8  +3  +2  +2  +6  Tongues at Will, Bonus Truename  +1 level of existing class  9  +3  +3  +3  +6  Divine Word 1/Day  +1 level of existing class  10  +4  +3  +3  +7  Power Word 1  Onomancer Order -Lejendary Adventure Game Upper Lower to Middle Society This is principally a Non-Avatar Character Order. If actually played as an Avatar there will be penalties as detailed hereafter, Onomancers are specialized diviners who are concerned with the true natures, essences, and especially names of people, places, substances, and things. Their most common business is with the naming of children, boats, and so on, where they have much the same status (and income) as other tradesmen. Moving up from the semi-mundane, the more able practitioners use their Divination and other abilities to improve their skills in other areas of magic. Initially much weaker and slower to advance than a dedicated Elementalist or Mage, say, they can become in time more potent in some ways. They are recognized socially by Elementalists, Mages, and Demonurges. RequiredAbilities are: Divination, Arcana, Learning, and Panprobability 12th Rank: Nicknamer. Divination only possessed: No benefit save contact or enlistment in the lowest ranks. 11th Rank: Name Seeker. Divination and Arcana possessed: Guild membership available; add 3 points to Arcana Ability. 10th Rank: Name Diviner. Divination, Arcana, and Learning, possessed: Gain book of name meanings; add 3 points each to Arcana and Learning Abilities. 9th Rank: Name Finder.All four main Abilities possessed: Gain book of sound meanings; add 2 points to each of the four required Abilities possessed, but addition to Divination Ability can not then cause the Avatar to move to a higher (numerically lower) Rank. If this would occur, limit addition to the last point total in the category, i.e. 60, 70, etc. 8th Rank, Name Maker. Divination at 61: Add Scrutiny Ability at 30, or add 15 to Scrutiny if that Ability is already possessed. 7th Rank, Master Namer. Divination at 71: Add Chivalry Ability at 20, or add 10 to Chivalry if that Ability is already possessed; add 2 points to each of the other three mainAbilities. 6th Rank, True Namer. Divination at 81: Add Evaluation Ability at 30, or add 15 to Evaluation if that Ability is already possessed. 5th Rank, Cognomen Forger. Divination at 91: Add Geourgy Ability at 20, or add 10 to Geourgy if that Ability is already possessed; add 2 points to each of the other three main Abilities. 4th Rank, Onomancer. Divination at 101: Add Enchantment Ability at 20, or add 10 to Enchantment if that Ability is already possessed; add 2 points to each of the other three main Abilities. 3rd Rank, Onomancer Master. Divination at 111: Add Rustic Ability at 20, or add 10 to Rustic if that Ability is already possessed; add 2 points to each of the other three main Abilities. 2nd Rank, Onomancer Adept. Divination at 121: Add Sorcery Ability at 20, or add 10 to Sorcery if that Ability is already possessed; add 2 points to each of the other three main Abilities. 1st Rank, Onomancer Prime. Divination at 131: Add Urbane Ability at 20, or add 10 to Urbane if that Ability is already possessed; add 2 points to each of the other three mainAbilities. General: Onomancers have a narrow knowledge of most Abilities outside their main set, and those of Extraordinary sort such as Geourgy, focusing on aspects where names, sound, and meaning are important. Chivalry, for instance, is studied for knowledge of history, titles, precedence, and heraldry. The effective score in Chivalry for purposes of riding, siegecraft, and combat is only half the rated amount, since while some of that is bound to be picked up, it isn’t really interesting to the Onomancer. This applies generally to other Abilities. Luckily the Onomancer does excel at some specific aspects of other Abilities, particularly Extraordinary ones. An Onomancer can grasp and use ordinary names of all types correctly, without needing them repeated, generally granting a small reaction bonus in foreign lands. An Onomancer becomes able to classify and evaluate potential risks at an intuitive level. If he succeeds in a roll against Divination Ability, he can do one of the following during a action sequence: a) gain initiative against one chosen opponent, a special success meaning he gets a totally free, unopposed action, since he has correctly divined that opponent’s intent; b) communicate by sound to one normal animal that he is non-hostile (‘wolf-brother’ or similar), thus preventing aggression or ingestion for a short time; c) add one (1) to his Speed BR multiplier for Disaster Avoidance (a Divination roll failure causes a B1 penalty, though, indicating a jump the wrong way). Extraordinary Uses of Onomancy: The legendary Finnish mages, notably Vainomoinen, used Onomancy, as anyone who has read the Kalevala will recognize. An Onomancer gains some benefits to Abilities and activations through his knowledge of names, Names of Power, and True Names. These benefits affect only Powers that directly affect a person, place, thing, or substance; or those that summon or control a being of some sort. Group-affecting or area-effect Powers never gain benefits. There is a time penalty of one (1) ABC added to any Ability use when using this knowledge, since names must be spoken and sometimes pedigree details also. A successful Divination Ability check when using any other Ability, including one of Extraordinary sort with an activation, indicates that the Onomancer knows or has divined the ordinary name (or nature) of the target, and is using that knowledge correctly. This temporarily boosts the score of the Ability being used by 1 point per 5 points of Divination Ability for that action. The bonus is automatic if the name is known through research or other means (say, a foe has announced his name before combat). A special success in the Divination Ability check indicates that the Onomancer has unconsciously grasped some aspect of the target’s true name, so his ensuing Ability roll will be made at B20 on the dice. Names of Power (names of potent magical entities called on to help the Onomancer’s summonings) must be discovered by research in Arcana Learning, study of Extraordinary Ability information, and so on. The LM decides the research warranted, depending on mundane and arcane research materials to hand (usually d6 to d20 days, and expenses as for any activation research). The quality of the research is checked when a summoning of the sort researched (fire elementals, for instance) is first attempted. Success means the names of power are appropriate to the task and used correctly. This gives bonuses equivalent to (and additive with) the Divination Ability bonus, for the activation itself and any ensuing control checks. A typical bonus would be from -5 to -20 on dice roll checks for activation success using the Name of Power. True Names are so potent as to be wholly in the province of the GM. As a guideline, an Onomancer can know and understand at one time a number of True Names equal to no more than 7 minus his rank (1 at 6th Rank, up to 6 at 1st Rank). A True Name is in effect the quintessence of a creature, substance, or thing. A true name must be researched or discovered by magic and so on C at least ten times the time and expense for a Name of Power is recommended, and names of potent beings such as demons will be well guarded. At the GM’s discretion, only a special success (or two) in research will yield the True Name of anything non.trivial, and the correct means to use it. A True Name can be of a single sentient individual, a particular portal (of any sort), a type of rock (say, granite), or a mundane animal species (say, a certain type of field mouse). In the last case, the True Name is the archetypal or ancestral name of the species. True Name knowledge gives no benefits per se except as a bargaining chip with sentient beings, and a generally non-hostile and deferential reaction by an animal species. What is does allow is an automatic bonus equivalent to (and additive with) the Divination Ability bonus, for any Ability use with respect to the entity bearing the True Name; furthermore that Ability roll will be made at B50 on the dice. The target of a successful activation or other Ability use gets no Disaster Avoidance check and can otherwise offer no resistance to the action. It is (if sentient) still free-willed and so on except concerning the applied Ability or activation. With respect to inanimate objects, a 6th Rank Onomancer could affect something his own size, a 1st Rank Onomancer could affect something the size of a castle’s curtain wall. An Onomancer generally concentrates his True Name research in a particular area for maximum benefit, so, for instance, one inclined to Geourgy might strive to learn the True Name of a potent elemental or two, the elemental substance itself, related things, and so on. Exact benefits must be decided by the GM in some cases, but generally the most favorable outcome for the Onomancer applies to control of forces and the like. Special Powers: At the GM’s discretion, there may be special Extraordinary Activations that only an Onomancer can learn, under the aegis of the Enchantment Ability. These make special use of names, or otherwise help in his activities. Bibliography This book cannot hope to cover everything, although we hope we have provided a good selection for most gamers. For those who want more, this select bibliography provides a starting point. Three books are especially worth reading. Dunkling’s The Guinness Book Of Names covers a wide range of name types, and lists fashions in first names in recent centuries and decades. Matthews’s English Surnames details the relationship of names to medieval life. Ingraham’s People’s Names is a handy source of real_world names for authors; she includes some meanings and a brief section on creating one’s own languages. To extend the lists of descriptive terms, simply use a good thesaurus and dictionary. To throw more light upon place names, refer to an atlas. An historical atlas should show where people were at various times. More material is also available on the World Wide Web, although there is a nightmarish ratio of chaff to wheat. Internet addresses tend to be transient, so rather than provide them, we suggest you use a search engine to look for names, historical names, medieval names, personal names, surnames, place names, onomastics, toponymy, pub names, and so on. Look for historical records rather than baby names and genealogy. Plenty of fantastic names should be available too, although name_generating programs tend to be platform_specific. C.W. Bardsley, A Dictionary of English and Welsh Surnames: With Special American Instances (Genealogical Publishing Company Inc., Baltimore, 1980). G.F. Black, The Surnames of Scotland: Their Origin, Meaning, and History (The New York Public Library, New York, 1962). B. de Breffny, Irish Family Names: Arms, Origins, and Location (W.W. Norton & Company Inc., New York, 1982). L.A. Dunkling, The Guinness Book Of Names, sixth edition (Guiness Publishing, Enfield, 1993). G. Fleck, The Old Norse Name (Olney, Maryland; Yggsalr Press; 1977). T. Freedman and I. MacLeod, The Wordsworth Dictionary of Surnames (Wordsworth Editions, Ware, 1997). P. Hanks and F. Hodges, A Dictionary of Surnames (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1988). P. Hanks and F. Hodges, A Dictionary of First Names (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1990). H. Ingraham, People’s Names: A Cross_Cultural Reference Guide to the Proper Use of Over 40,000 Personal and Familial Names in Over 100 Cultures (McFarland & Company, Jefferson, 1997). C.M. Matthews, English Surnames (Weidenfeld and Nicolson, London, 1966). U. Onon, Chinggis Khan: The Golden History of the Mongols, rev. S. Bradbury (The Folio Society, London, 1993). L. Peterson, Dictionary of Names from Scandinavian Runic Inscriptions, third edition (Institute for Dialectology, Onomastics, and Folklore Research, 2001). P.H. Reany and R.M. Wilson, A Dictionary of English Surnames, third edition (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1995). A. Room, The Dictionary of First Names (Cassell, London, 1995). J. Stewart,African Names (Citadel Press, New York, 1993). E.G. Withycombe, The Oxford Dictionary of English Christian Names, second edition (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1973). A Lexicon of Greek Personal Names (Faculty of Classics, Oxford University). Boutell’s Heraldry, rev. J.P. Brook_Little (Frederick Warne & Co. Ltd., London, 1973). H. Brugsch_Bey, Egypt Under the Pharaohs (Bracken Books, London, 1996). CIA, The World Factbook 2000 (Central Intelligence Agency, Washington DC, 2000). C.R. Coulter and P. Turner, Encyclopedia of Ancient Deities (McFarland & Company Inc., Jefferson, 2000). L.A. Dunkling and G. Wright, The Wordsworth Dictionary of Pub Names (Wordsworth Editions, Ware, 1994). R. Goring (ed.), Larousse Dictionary of Literary Characters (Larousse PLC, Edinburgh, 1994). Lemprire’s Classical Dictionary of Proper Names Mentioned in Ancient Authors (Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1978). Market House Books Ltd, Encyclopedia of World History (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1998). Muir’s Historical Atlas: Ancient, Medieval, and Modern, sixth edition, ed. R.F Treharne and H. Fullard, (Book Club Associates, London, 1976). N.G.L Hammond and H.H. Scullard (eds), The Oxford Classical Dictionary, second edition (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1979). T.L. Shannon, International Guide to Forms of Address (Macmillan, London, 1997). M.Z. Bradley, ‘…And Strange_Sounding Names’, in The Blade of Conan ed. L.S. de Camp (Ace, New York, 1979). R. Campbell, Far Away & Never (Necronomicon Press, West Warwick, 1996). L. Carter, Imaginary Worlds: The Art of Fantasy (Ballantyne, New York, 1973). L. Carter, ‘The Naming of Names’, in Lord Dunsany, Beyond the Fields We Know ed. L. Carter (Pan/Ballantyne, London, 1972). D. Crystal, The Cambridge Encyclopedia of the English Language (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1995). U. le Guin, ‘From Elfland to Poughkeepsie’, in Fantasists on Fantasy: A Collection of Critical Reflections ed. K.J. Zahorski and R.H. Boyer (Avon Books, New York, 1984). J.R.R. Tolkien, ‘On Fairy_Stories’ in J.R.R. Tolkien, Tree and Leaf/Smith of Wootton Major/The Homecoming of Beorhtnoth (Unwin Books, London, 1975). 